us group pressures deutsche bank to maintain rundown properties -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de housing -pipe- 30.07.2010 us group pressures deutsche bank to maintain rundown properties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : homes values in the sherman park area of milwaukee has fallen substantially the financial crisis has left thousands of homes vacant in the us city of milwaukee .
residents there are placing part of the blame for the mess at deutsche bank 's door . the people of milwaukee are proud of their city .
they enjoy its proximity to lake michigan , an abundance of parks and high-class restaurants .
but the financial crisis has hit the wisconsin city hard .
thousands of houses have been foreclosed , their owners evicted because they could no longer repay their loans . for the people in the sherman park neighborhood , the crisis is a nightmare that 's turned the area around their homes into a wasteland .
a shop named " milk and honey " is located on 51st street , but the fact is there has n't been anything sweet or creamy about this part of the city since the beginning of the financial crisis . " i feel like i need to leave , " said dolly turnbull , who has lived in sherman park for 31 years .
" but i ca n't because that 's exactly what 's going to make it fall apart . " widespread disrepair bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : giaimo said deutsche bank is partly responsible for the state of homes in sherman park drug dealers have moved into some of the rundown properties .
many streets have fallen into disrepair , and half the homes are empty .
one of the houses covered in graffiti .
" get money , " it says on the wall .
the paper boy still delivers free newspapers to the house , but with no one there to collect them they pile up on the porch .
this property was once worth $ 100,000 -lrb- 76,550 euros -rrb- .
with almost the whole street in bad shape , the price is down to $ 10,000 . until three months ago , it did n't look as if anything were about to change .
but that 's when the people of milwaukee shifted their gaze from their own streets to far-way germany .
they accused germany 's biggest bank , deutsche bank , of being responsible for a large part of the mess .
it 's ironic , they said , given that it was mostly german immigrants who settled in milwaukee back in the 1840s . susan giaimo , a milwaukee professor in political science , travelled to frankfurt in may .
she wanted to stir things up on deutsche bank 's home turf . " deutsche bank is destroying milwaukee homes , " she said .
" germany built milwaukee and now a german bank is destroying milwaukee homes . " deutsche bank 's role in housing crisis bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of homes have been foreclosed on giaimo works with the community organization named common ground of wisconsin .
deutsche bank is much more involved in the housing crisis than it likes to admit , according to the group .
the company bought up large packages of mortgages and resold them for a profit , and it serves as trustee for thousands of milwaukee homes - many of which have been foreclosed on or are considered at-risk .
according to deutsche bank , the company is trustee of 1 million houses across the united states .
that makes deutsche bank accountable for what is happening with the houses , according to common ground . " the banks made money on these subprime mortgages and we want them to take responsibility , " giaimo said . but deutsche bank said there is not much it can do to improve the situation in the perplexing us mortgage market .
the market is made up investors that buy large packages of mortgages .
then there are trustees that administer these packages .
and there are servicers that collect the payments from the house owners and have to take care of foreclosed homes . as trustee , deutsche bank has said it is not directly involved in what happens to the properties .
a spokesperson told deutsche welle it would be illegal for the bank to interfere too much with the operations of other companies involved in the properties ' management .
deutsche bank 's role is , therefore , an administrative one , the spokesman added . but that 's difficult to explain to people receiving foreclosure orders bearing the deutsche bank logo .
it 's the german company that legally owns the loans . trash , grass and broken windows bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : deutsche bank said it would talk to mortgage services about the problem in wisconsin at a meeting in july , the city of milwaukee tried to sort things out .
all major banks came to the city hall - including deutsche bank . listing thousands of violations , city officials said the servicers are doing a lousy job maintaining the properties they are meant to be taking care of .
trash is littered through the high grass and broken windows abound .
the properties with the highest number of violations were managed in deutsche bank trusts .
" we 're not asking too much of the financial institutions , " alderman michael murphy said .
" the united states government helped bailout banks and now local government is bailing them out in maintaining their properties .
this is not acceptable . " deutsche bank has promised to talk to the servicers and ask them to improve the job they are doing .
the bank also agreed to discuss plans to invest in milwaukee . the city has given deutsche bank and its competitors six weeks to lift its game .
otherwise it will consider legal action . author : benjamin hammer editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de top german banker found guilty of market manipulation the former chief of german bank ikb has been found guilty of market manipulation and given a 10-month suspended sentence .
he was also given a hefty fine for misstating investment risks .
-lrb- 14.07.2010 -rrb- us probe looks into international banks and ratings agencies , reports say new york 's attorney general has begun investigating eight banks , including deutsche bank , on their relationships with ratings agencies .
-lrb- 13.05.2010 -rrb- deutsche bank reveals uk bonus tax , posts profits deutsche bank ceo josef ackermann said the bank has set aside 225 million euros -lrb- $ 314 million -rrb- to pay a one-off uk tax on bankers ' bonuses .
he also said he expects industry pay to decline in coming years .
-lrb- 06.02.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic milwaukee homeowners call on deutsche bank to stop urban decay 02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1841 : the birth of mass tourism dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1818 : " stille nacht , heilige nacht " � silent night , holy © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- 02 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- 02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
wto ruling the world trade organization rules that china 's export restrictions on raw materials are illegal .
watch the video cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series a german musician brings change with song and crowd funding .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- 02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live politik direkt - das politikmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1841 : the birth of mass tourism dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- 02 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' german pop ' homepage somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- 02 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
city of aachen : history meets high-tech -pipe- study in germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de cities -pipe- 30.07.2010 city of aachen : history meets high-tech großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aachen 's landmark cathedral is a unesco world heritage site aachen got its name from the natural hot springs that are located in the region .
health-spa enthusiasts still visit this spot today .
but the city 's image is also shaped by its university and rich history . aachen , with its 257,000 residents , is germany 's westernmost city , located just a stone 's throw away from belgium and the netherlands .
the city 's history goes back to the stone age .
although you wo n't find any visual evidence from this era , there are still some reminders of roman times .
ancient buildings , some of which were rebuilt after world war two , dominate the city center .
small alleyways , aging houses , numerous cafes and shops share space with imposing buildings like the town hall and the cathedral . " ahha " or " aqua " = aachen the name of the city comes from either the germanic " ahha " or from the latin " aqua , " both meaning " water . "
this was due to the local hot springs , as both the franks and the romans were very fond of them .
even charlemagne is believed to have bathed in these curative waters .
he felt so content in aachen that he designated it his favorite place and built a cathedral there . the big cathedral the aachen cathedral is the city 's landmark and dates back to the carolingian times .
its distinguishing feature is its octagonal dome structure .
it is shiny and golden on the inside and , along with the cathedral treasury , has been designated by unesco as a world heritage site . as the story goes , charlemagne ran out of money at some point during the building of the cathedral .
his solution : a pact with the devil , who allegedly paid for the expensive construction project in exchange for the soul of the first living being that entered the newly-built cathedral .
in response , the people of aachen captured a wolf and let it inside the cathedral as soon as it was finished .
the devil had to accept the wolf 's soul , which made him so angry that he stormed out of the cathedral , slamming the door shut behind him and losing one of his thumbs in the process .
today , you can still touch the trapped " devil 's thumb " inside the lion-head doorknob on the right main portal . historic town hall the aachen town hall is one of the most impressive buildings in aachen .
after numerous alterations , it stands today in the neo-gothic style .
once a year , vips from all over the world gather here in the historic coronation hall for the charlemagne prize ceremony .
this prize has been awarded annually since 1950 to honor people who have contributed to european unity .
former laureates include german chancellor angela merkel and british prime minister tony blair . technologically advanced aachen is not only a popular tourist city , but also an important technological and industrial center in germany .
it 's a place where engineering technology , automation technology , laser technology and environmental technology are developed , and it plays an important role in the region .
many companies , especially those in the automobile industry , work closely with the rwth - aachen 's university .
author : anna grabowski editor : greg wiser send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links rwth university aachen the university 's website in english aachen tourist service the official city website in english 02 dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft - das wissenschaftsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
study in germany student at any age learn about reality at any age , says philosopher peter sloterdijk .
external links german student union : info for internationals daad scholarship database directory : german degree programs directory : german universities study in germany website dw-akademie starting november 1 , 2010 , applications are open for the international media studies master 's degree information for applicants become a fan follow deutsche welle on the online interactive platform facebook .
deutsche welle on fb word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week pulse taking the pulse of youth culture with music and what 's hot in the german music scene .
pulse language learners want to learn german ?
dw has the tools to help beginners and advanced students alike .
learning german teaching german © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- feedback are a turkish-german who has moved to turkey ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live arts.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- 02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- 02 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china party success china 's success depends on the communist party , but corruption might lead to catastrophe : hu foreign aid a helping hand the european commission has decided to help north korea tackle famine .
art ming vases chinese art collectors are traveling to europe to buy ancient works from their own country .
threatened communities preserving tribal communities and their habitats can help sustain the environment .
dr. james albert of the society for threatened peoples speaks about the dangers to tribals in india dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates feedback would you stay or would you go ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live stock exchange today in history 1818 : " stille nacht , heilige nacht " � silent night , holy © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates 02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live quadriga - der internationale talk we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1841 : the birth of mass tourism dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de peacekeeping -pipe- 30.07.2010 hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the somali police were trained in ethiopia , funded by germany almost 1,000 somali police have gone missing after their training was financed by the german government .
it is feared these officers will now join forces with the islamist militants al-shabaab . in september 2009 , the german government released $ 1 million -lrb- 760,000 euros -rrb- of funding to train somali police officers .
the training took place in ethiopia , and the new recruits were equipped with uniforms , weapons and knowledge with the aim of sending them back into somalia to try and keep peace in the fractured country .
two months after the completion of this training , almost 1,000 new police officers have reportedly disappeared en route to the somali capital mogadishu .
it is thought highly likely that these deserters have left to join opposition islamist militia in somalia .
in a statement , the german foreign office confirmed that funds were released to train somali police , and that in may 2010 , 925 trained officers were transported to somalia under ethiopian surveillance .
they did not comment on whether the police had deserted or not .
' training the opposition ' currently , the transitional somali government is struggling to suppress the militia , including al-qaeda sympathisers al-shabaab , who control as much as two-thirds of the country .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opposition militia control two-thirds of somalia germany is one of several countries who have committed to training security personnel as in indirect method of trying to help , without military intervention .
however , according to ulrich delius from the society for threatened peoples , the problem is that most of these newly trained recruits " leave after a few months " to go and work for the armed opposition .
" you have to ensure that these people really stay in the official army or police , " delius told deutsche welle .
" otherwise you are just training the people you will be fighting in a few months . "
a report published by the head of the un monitoring group on somalia , dumisani kumalo in 2008 , said 80 percent of trained security officers deserted their posts , taking with them their weapons , uniforms and the acquired knowledge .
reasons for desertion at a time when the transitional government is barely keeping a hold on the north of somalia , deserters may feel they are better off siding with the militants than the government .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : weapons have become valuable commodities " no one is sure who will be the government of tomorrow … so they are switching to survive , " delius said .
" also , you need a weapon and whether you get it from the police or from the armed opposition , it does not matter . "
he added that money was another strong incentive for joining the militants , as " somali warlords often offer more money than the official army or police . "
in this case , german media reports that the somali police were waiting for their pay from the german government before they disappeared .
another reason for discontent may be due to the fact that the training took place in ethiopia – a country with a long , bloody history with somalia .
" there 's a very strong feeling against ethiopia in all parts of somali society , " said delius .
stabilization the german government has come under fire for not only partnering with ethiopia , but also according to some sources , bypassing the correct united nations procedures and ignoring sanctions against somalia .
however , the foreign ministry said in a statement that it had informed both the un contact group on somalia and the un sanctions committee .
in recent weeks , the government has reconfirmed its commitment to aiding somalia , most recently at the african union summit in kampala .
german foreign minister guido westerwelle said that the training of police in somalia was a " substantial contribution " to stabilizing the country .
ulrich delius argues however that all the projects for training security forces will continue to have no effect until politicians start to " understand the root of the problems in somalia . "
author : catherine bolsover editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de somalia taking center stage at african union summit somalia is once again dominating the agenda at the biannual summit of african leaders .
experts agree that the tactics need to change in somalia in order for peace to return to the country .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- investigation opens into german mercenaries in somalia the public prosecutor in the german city of muenster has opened an investigation into reports that a german security firm is sending mercenaries to a somali warlord amid concerns the deal violates un sanctions .
-lrb- 26.05.2010 -rrb- experts say west needs to change half-hearted approach to somalia a conference on somalia is being convened by the united nations in istanbul with the aim of showing support for the somali people .
but observers say the west 's half-hearted approach is doing more harm than good .
-lrb- 21.05.2010 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture west german photographer thomas hoepker documented life abroad - in east germany - in the 1970s .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit reporter we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1918 : the murder of the tsar family dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates feedback would you stay or would you go ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live stock exchange today in history 1979 : beuys at the guggenheim museum © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates feedback would you stay or would you go ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live stock exchange today in history 1938 : uranium nuclear fission © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates feedback would you stay or would you go ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1991 : " ötzi " found © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week football and finance : listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1798 : napoleon sets off for egypt dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
well-wrapped - a house journeys to china studio guest : michael hüther düsseldorf - the song contest as an economic factor energy butler - cutting utility bills made easy pumped storage power plant - ecological energy depot in the black forest © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates feedback would you stay or would you go ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds patricia kopatchinskaja – violinist listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fifa women 's world cup - another summer celebration ?
la máquina - tunnel-boring machinery for mexico , part 4 : the breakthrough industrial farming - pigs at dumping prices siematic kitchens - exclusive and expensive stock exchange today in history 1924 : first olympic winter games © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates feedback would you stay or would you go ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week liquid assets : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour musikfest berlin 01 listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
the future of motoring 2 : zero-emissions vehicles the crisis in portugal bio-fuels : the debate continues pumps and robots - german technology for fukushima stock exchange today in history 1865 : max and moritz © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- 9801 dw-tv europe live talking germany - the german way of life we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour early music days in regensburg -lrb- 2 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- feedback how far can dortmund go in the europa league this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with author tom rachman listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions the results gurus dw 's soccer pundits attempt to predict match day 13 's results while achieving spiritual nirvana .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- feedback how far can dortmund go in the europa league this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- feedback how far can dortmund go in the europa league this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- feedback how far can dortmund go in the europa league this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- 9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- feedback how far can dortmund go in the europa league this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- feedback how far can dortmund go in the europa league this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
bundesliga picks playing hurt it 's match day 28 in the bundesliga but dw 's tired pundits wish it was all over already ...
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour early music days in regensburg -lrb- 2 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- feedback are a turkish-german who has moved to turkey ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- feedback are a turkish-german who has moved to turkey ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink news and perspectives from the heart of europe listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- feedback are a turkish-german who has moved to turkey ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture west german photographer thomas hoepker documented life abroad - in east germany - in the 1970s .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- feedback are a turkish-german who has moved to turkey ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- feedback are a turkish-german who has moved to turkey ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- 9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback have google 's actions concerned you ?
do you worry about online data protection ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback have google 's actions concerned you ?
do you worry about online data protection ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook energy researchers hope nuclear fusion reactors could put an end to the world 's energy problems .
endless energy health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
quiz take the quiz - win an ipad !
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback have google 's actions concerned you ?
do you worry about online data protection ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- 9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback have google 's actions concerned you ?
do you worry about online data protection ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback have google 's actions concerned you ?
do you worry about online data protection ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook energy researchers hope nuclear fusion reactors could put an end to the world 's energy problems .
endless energy health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
quiz take the quiz - win an ipad !
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- feedback to what extent should berlin hinder the process of gentrification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live culture calendar november happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- feedback to what extent should berlin hinder the process of gentrification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress getting sick is not an option for manila 's poor listen live culture calendar october happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- feedback to what extent should berlin hinder the process of gentrification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress listen live cities at the heart of most european cities , there 's a plaza , piazza or platz where everything happens .
plaza mayor , madrid potsdamer platz , berlin st. mark 's square , venice literature urban writing crowded , intriguing and often impovrished , the world 's megacities inspire their writers .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- feedback to what extent should berlin hinder the process of gentrification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
picture gallery christmas markets holiday cheer ís easy to come by during the advent season in germany .
travel explore some of europe 's most fascinating cities with dw-tv 's euromaxx .
athens , greece trieste , italy krakow , poland le mans , france tarragona , spain oslo , norway edinburgh , scotland dresden , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- 9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
cuisine get a taste of europe with these gourmet recipes .
seafood from scotland swedish crispbread saddle of rabbit with asparagus risotto rutabaga soup dumplings with meat filling sweet-savory pheasant from leeds dw-tv : euromaxx podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 12 - favorite alt-rockers ja , panik are back subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- feedback to what extent should berlin hinder the process of gentrification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski clip no. 9 - the bonny situation subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- feedback to what extent should berlin hinder the process of gentrification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art meet several artists who live in a small world and miniaturize their work .
the filmmaker the model builder the engraver the painter the photographer podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 11 - jupiter jones are moving on up subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- 9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
cuisine get a taste of europe with these gourmet recipes .
sole meunière tortelloni with jerusalem artichoke filling sea bass in a salt crust swabian spätzle veal schnitzel from switzerland seafood from scotland swedish crispbread recent picture galleries car fetish exhibition berlin fashion week day of the kiss ai weiwei , the photographer podcast series traveling on a budget ?
dw presents shoestring guides to european cities .
get all the episodes subscribe on itunes get the rss feed podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1945 : nuremberg trials begin © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1906 : first photoelectric fax transmission © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1982 : gracia patricia killed in a road accident © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1938 : uranium nuclear fission © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week football and finance : listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1795 : the meter is laid down in paris dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
well-wrapped - a house journeys to china studio guest : michael hüther düsseldorf - the song contest as an economic factor energy butler - cutting utility bills made easy pumped storage power plant - ecological energy depot in the black forest © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week liquid assets : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
the future of motoring 2 : zero-emissions vehicles the crisis in portugal bio-fuels : the debate continues pumps and robots - german technology for fukushima stock exchange today in history 1865 : max and moritz © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live stock exchange today in history 1918 : the murder of the tsar family dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- 9801 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week the invisble man of music : conductor muir mathieson listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- 9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
9/11 anniversary your memories how did 9/11 change your thoughts or worldview ?
send a text or photos to dw .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour early music days in regensburg -lrb- 2 -rrb- listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us group pressures deutsche bank to maintain rundown properties -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de housing -pipe- 30.07.2010 us group pressures deutsche bank to maintain rundown properties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : homes values in the sherman park area of milwaukee has fallen substantially the financial crisis has left thousands of homes vacant in the us city of milwaukee .
residents there are placing part of the blame for the mess at deutsche bank 's door . the people of milwaukee are proud of their city .
they enjoy its proximity to lake michigan , an abundance of parks and high-class restaurants .
but the financial crisis has hit the wisconsin city hard .
thousands of houses have been foreclosed , their owners evicted because they could no longer repay their loans . for the people in the sherman park neighborhood , the crisis is a nightmare that 's turned the area around their homes into a wasteland .
a shop named " milk and honey " is located on 51st street , but the fact is there has n't been anything sweet or creamy about this part of the city since the beginning of the financial crisis . " i feel like i need to leave , " said dolly turnbull , who has lived in sherman park for 31 years .
" but i ca n't because that 's exactly what 's going to make it fall apart . " widespread disrepair bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : giaimo said deutsche bank is partly responsible for the state of homes in sherman park drug dealers have moved into some of the rundown properties .
many streets have fallen into disrepair , and half the homes are empty .
one of the houses covered in graffiti .
" get money , " it says on the wall .
the paper boy still delivers free newspapers to the house , but with no one there to collect them they pile up on the porch .
this property was once worth $ 100,000 -lrb- 76,550 euros -rrb- .
with almost the whole street in bad shape , the price is down to $ 10,000 . until three months ago , it did n't look as if anything were about to change .
but that 's when the people of milwaukee shifted their gaze from their own streets to far-way germany .
they accused germany 's biggest bank , deutsche bank , of being responsible for a large part of the mess .
it 's ironic , they said , given that it was mostly german immigrants who settled in milwaukee back in the 1840s . susan giaimo , a milwaukee professor in political science , travelled to frankfurt in may .
she wanted to stir things up on deutsche bank 's home turf . " deutsche bank is destroying milwaukee homes , " she said .
" germany built milwaukee and now a german bank is destroying milwaukee homes . " deutsche bank 's role in housing crisis bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of homes have been foreclosed on giaimo works with the community organization named common ground of wisconsin .
deutsche bank is much more involved in the housing crisis than it likes to admit , according to the group .
the company bought up large packages of mortgages and resold them for a profit , and it serves as trustee for thousands of milwaukee homes - many of which have been foreclosed on or are considered at-risk .
according to deutsche bank , the company is trustee of 1 million houses across the united states .
that makes deutsche bank accountable for what is happening with the houses , according to common ground . " the banks made money on these subprime mortgages and we want them to take responsibility , " giaimo said . but deutsche bank said there is not much it can do to improve the situation in the perplexing us mortgage market .
the market is made up investors that buy large packages of mortgages .
then there are trustees that administer these packages .
and there are servicers that collect the payments from the house owners and have to take care of foreclosed homes . as trustee , deutsche bank has said it is not directly involved in what happens to the properties .
a spokesperson told deutsche welle it would be illegal for the bank to interfere too much with the operations of other companies involved in the properties ' management .
deutsche bank 's role is , therefore , an administrative one , the spokesman added . but that 's difficult to explain to people receiving foreclosure orders bearing the deutsche bank logo .
it 's the german company that legally owns the loans . trash , grass and broken windows bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : deutsche bank said it would talk to mortgage services about the problem in wisconsin at a meeting in july , the city of milwaukee tried to sort things out .
all major banks came to the city hall - including deutsche bank . listing thousands of violations , city officials said the servicers are doing a lousy job maintaining the properties they are meant to be taking care of .
trash is littered through the high grass and broken windows abound .
the properties with the highest number of violations were managed in deutsche bank trusts .
" we 're not asking too much of the financial institutions , " alderman michael murphy said .
" the united states government helped bailout banks and now local government is bailing them out in maintaining their properties .
this is not acceptable . " deutsche bank has promised to talk to the servicers and ask them to improve the job they are doing .
the bank also agreed to discuss plans to invest in milwaukee . the city has given deutsche bank and its competitors six weeks to lift its game .
otherwise it will consider legal action . author : benjamin hammer editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de top german banker found guilty of market manipulation the former chief of german bank ikb has been found guilty of market manipulation and given a 10-month suspended sentence .
he was also given a hefty fine for misstating investment risks .
-lrb- 14.07.2010 -rrb- us probe looks into international banks and ratings agencies , reports say new york 's attorney general has begun investigating eight banks , including deutsche bank , on their relationships with ratings agencies .
-lrb- 13.05.2010 -rrb- deutsche bank reveals uk bonus tax , posts profits deutsche bank ceo josef ackermann said the bank has set aside 225 million euros -lrb- $ 314 million -rrb- to pay a one-off uk tax on bankers ' bonuses .
he also said he expects industry pay to decline in coming years .
-lrb- 06.02.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic milwaukee homeowners call on deutsche bank to stop urban decay 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour early music days in regensburg -lrb- 2 -rrb- listen live stock exchange today in history 1918 : the murder of the tsar family dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- 9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china flourishing relations beijing and riyadh have become increasingly close in recent years .
politics pressure mounting thai prime minister-elect yingluck shinawatra faces big challenges in office .
dw-tv europe live discover germany - the tv travel guide we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think the us should do in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 pakistan floods three months after the floods struck , some people have still not received aid .
maqbool malik of dw 's urdu service talks about the humanitarian aid situation in pakistan 's flood-affected areas listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 02.11.10 china 's census is a logistical nightmare india 's uids could violate privacy pakistan 's flood disaster is far from over podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters asia compact join us on facebook !
islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think the us should do in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 thai emergency the thai government has lifted the state of emergency in bangkok .
dw correspondent ron corben talks about the lifting of the emergency eight months after being imposed asia compact join us on facebook !
interview suu kyi calls for more support from europe the burmese civil rights activist talks to dw in an exclusive interview .
december asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 21.12.10 tension subsides on korean peninsula bangkok lifts emergency will unique ids help india ’ s villagers ?
podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- 9801 sri lanka two years ago , sri lanka 's army put a brutal end to a separatist rebellion that lasted 26 years .
sagarica delgoda from the friedrich naumann foundation in colombo talks about the challenges the government faces global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media human rights the government in myanmar has decided to grant a one-year sentence reduction to all prisoners .
brad adams , executive director of human rights watch 's asia division , says the amnesty is " meaningless " international relations us-pakistan relations pakistan needs to convince the us it is a real ally in the fight against terrorism , says expert .
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 19.05.11 protests against nato-led troops continue in afghanistan sri lanka ’ s civil war ended two years ago senior citizens in japan offer their help to fukushima podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think the us should do in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 reader response feedback on kashmir , korea and other issues our readers and asia compact listeners are passionate about sending in their views .
september asia quiz quiz of the month pakistan the catastrophe click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 24.09.10 japan releases chinese skipper aafia siddiqui trial fails to solve the mystery bhutan says happiness should become a development goal podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think the us should do in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 indonesian foreign policy indonesia and asean recently called for sanctions against myanmar to be lifted .
indonesia 's ambassador to germany , eddy pratomo , on his country 's foreign policy asia compact join us on facebook !
january asia quiz quiz of the month vietnam party congress the five-yearly congress of vietnam 's communist party has come to an end in hanoi .
joerg bergstermann of the friedrich ebert foundation in hanoi talks about whether the congress has brought any significant changes listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 24.01.11 new violence in thailand 's deep south russia 's growing role in pakistan indonesia 's ambassador makes a visit to dw podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think the us should do in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 april asia quiz quiz of the month religion human rights watch says vietnam persecutes indigenous christian montagnards in the highlands .
phil robertson from hrw says christian house churches are targeted in particular global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media migration in bali , ministers from asian countries signed an agreement to tackle human trafficking networks .
asia-pacific spokesman of the international organization for migration , chris lom , talks about why his organization supports the so-called bali process listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 01.04.11 radioactive contamination of sea water off japan vietnam 's montagnards face repression aids in myanmar podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online digital stories deutsche welle 's partner website from pakistan newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- 9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china flourishing relations beijing and riyadh have become increasingly close in recent years .
politics pressure mounting thai prime minister-elect yingluck shinawatra faces big challenges in office .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you agree that there is war in afghanistan because the international troops are there ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 india wildlife india 's ambassador to germany , mr sudhir vyas , a passionate naturalist and ornithologist , talks about biodiversity in india november asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 03.11.10 dissidents pessimistic about myanmar 's elections china 's boom has less than a human face india 's rich biodiversity is in danger podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters asia compact join us on facebook ! © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you agree that there is war in afghanistan because the international troops are there ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 thai emergency the thai government has lifted the state of emergency in bangkok .
dw correspondent ron corben talks about the lifting of the emergency eight months after being imposed asia compact join us on facebook !
interview suu kyi calls for more support from europe the burmese civil rights activist talks to dw in an exclusive interview .
december asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 23.12.10 north korea is ready for a " sacred war " china offers to help eurozone out of crisis life has n't much changed for afghan women podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- 9801 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media thai election one year after the bloody crackdown in bangkok , a lot of questions remain unanswered .
international crisis group 's rungrawee chalermsripinyorat on the situation in thailand ahead of the election on july 3 sri lanka two years ago , sri lanka 's army put a brutal end to a separatist rebellion that lasted 26 years .
sagarica delgoda from the friedrich naumann foundation in colombo talks about the challenges the government faces international relations us-pakistan relations pakistan needs to convince the us it is a real ally in the fight against terrorism , says expert .
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 20.05.11 bhutan 's king announces royal wedding thailand gears up for election 20 years since rajiv gandhi 's assassination podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you agree that there is war in afghanistan because the international troops are there ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 reader response feedback on kashmir , korea and other issues our readers and asia compact listeners are passionate about sending in their views .
september asia quiz quiz of the month pakistan the catastrophe click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 24.09.10 japan releases chinese skipper aafia siddiqui trial fails to solve the mystery bhutan says happiness should become a development goal podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you agree that there is war in afghanistan because the international troops are there ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 uzbekistan human rights organizations have slammed the eu for hosting uzbek president islam karimov .
andrew stroehlein , of international crisis group , says the eu does n't have a clear policy regarding central asian dictators asia compact join us on facebook !
korean peninsula north korean defectors want more active role s korea has agreed to hold high-level talks with the north , marking a breakthrough in the crisis .
january asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 26.01.11 afghan president hamid karzai inaugurates new parliament rights organizations criticize eu for hosting uzbek president survey finds nine out of 10 cambodian farmers suffer from pesticide poisoning podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you agree that there is war in afghanistan because the international troops are there ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 afghanistan protests against the burning of a koran in florida have continued in afghanistan .
thomas ruttig from the afghan analysts network talks about the riots , which killed more than 20 people over the weekend april asia quiz quiz of the month religion human rights watch says vietnam persecutes indigenous christian montagnards in the highlands .
phil robertson from hrw says christian house churches are targeted in particular global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 06.04.11 muhammad yunus is forced to step down japanese dairy farmers worry about radiation ai weiwei ’ s fate remains unclear podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online digital stories deutsche welle 's partner website from pakistan newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook energy researchers hope nuclear fusion reactors could put an end to the world 's energy problems .
endless energy health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
quiz take the quiz - win an ipad !
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook energy researchers hope nuclear fusion reactors could put an end to the world 's energy problems .
endless energy health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
quiz take the quiz - win an ipad !
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- 9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards voting is underway at the bobs - deutsche welle 's annual blog contest .
cast your ballot social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- 9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- 9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china flourishing relations beijing and riyadh have become increasingly close in recent years .
politics pressure mounting thai prime minister-elect yingluck shinawatra faces big challenges in office .
dw-tv europe live talking germany - the german way of life we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- feedback are megacities monsters or marvels ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 environment the next round of global climate change talks kicks off in cancun at the end of the month .
dilip sinha , additional secretary at the indian foreign ministry , talks about the developing countries ' expectations of cancun human rights why are six countries not attending the nobel peace prize ceremony this year ?
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 19.11.10 burmese community in india has mixed feelings developing countries prepare for climate talks phnom penh gears up for water festival podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- feedback are megacities monsters or marvels ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 afghanistan the high peace council appointed by president karzai is supposed to talk to the taliban .
afghanistan analyst thomas ruttig in kabul talks about the council 's mandate and its chances asia compact join us on facebook !
interview territorial disputes in the south china sea have overshadowed the asian defense talks in hanoi .
arun chowdhury speaks to jana sehnalkova , an expert on us-china relations at the charles university in prague october asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 13.10.10 a fair share of autonomy for the high peace council in afghanistan complicated parliamentary arithmetics after the elections in kyrgyzstan liao yiwu enjoys the sweet taste of freedom in germany podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters pakistan the catastrophe click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- feedback are megacities monsters or marvels ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 kashmir the indian security forces have arrested kashmir separatist leader syed ali shah geelani prof. javeed alam , expert on kashmir talks about the impact of the arrest on the kashmir issue september asia quiz quiz of the month pakistan floods in pakistan click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
how people are suffering in the aftermath .
pakistan floods asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact -lrb- 08.09.2010 -rrb- separatist leader arrested in indian-administered kashmir cambodian opposition leader faces trial bureaucracy in india makes things difficult for universal education podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- feedback are megacities monsters or marvels ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 india a doctor and rights activist has been sentenced to life imprisonment for supporting the maoists .
dw correspondent murali krishnan talks about the case of binayak sen asia compact join us on facebook !
thai emergency the thai government has lifted the state of emergency in bangkok .
dw correspondent ron corben talks about the lifting of the emergency eight months after being imposed december asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 24.12.10 indian rights activist sentenced to life imprisonment bhutto murder still a mystery after three years myanmar faces uncertainty in 2011 podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- 9801 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media thai election one year after the bloody crackdown in bangkok , a lot of questions remain unanswered .
international crisis group 's rungrawee chalermsripinyorat on the situation in thailand ahead of the election on july 3 sri lanka two years ago , sri lanka 's army put a brutal end to a separatist rebellion that lasted 26 years .
sagarica delgoda from the friedrich naumann foundation in colombo talks about the challenges the government faces international relations us-pakistan relations pakistan needs to convince the us it is a real ally in the fight against terrorism , says expert .
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 20.05.11 bhutan 's king announces royal wedding thailand gears up for election 20 years since rajiv gandhi 's assassination podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- feedback are megacities monsters or marvels ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 uzbekistan human rights organizations have slammed the eu for hosting uzbek president islam karimov .
andrew stroehlein , of international crisis group , says the eu does n't have a clear policy regarding central asian dictators korean peninsula north korean defectors want more active role s korea has agreed to hold high-level talks with the north , marking a breakthrough in the crisis .
january asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 26.01.11 afghan president hamid karzai inaugurates new parliament rights organizations criticize eu for hosting uzbek president survey finds nine out of 10 cambodian farmers suffer from pesticide poisoning podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- feedback are megacities monsters or marvels ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 pakistan floods oxfam has published a pakistan flood affectees survey to highlight what the survivors urgently need .
oxfam 's fatima naqvi talks about the report april asia quiz quiz of the month afghanistan protests against the burning of a koran in florida have continued in afghanistan .
thomas ruttig from the afghan analysts network talks about the riots , which killed more than 20 people over the weekend listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 07.04.11 thailand faces criticism for firing cluster munitions into cambodia unemployment is a big problem for pakistan ’ s flood survivors japan has a unique earthquake early warning system podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters digital stories deutsche welle 's partner website from pakistan dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de peacekeeping -pipe- 30.07.2010 hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the somali police were trained in ethiopia , funded by germany almost 1,000 somali police have gone missing after their training was financed by the german government .
it is feared these officers will now join forces with the islamist militants al-shabaab . in september 2009 , the german government released $ 1 million -lrb- 760,000 euros -rrb- of funding to train somali police officers .
the training took place in ethiopia , and the new recruits were equipped with uniforms , weapons and knowledge with the aim of sending them back into somalia to try and keep peace in the fractured country .
two months after the completion of this training , almost 1,000 new police officers have reportedly disappeared en route to the somali capital mogadishu .
it is thought highly likely that these deserters have left to join opposition islamist militia in somalia .
in a statement , the german foreign office confirmed that funds were released to train somali police , and that in may 2010 , 925 trained officers were transported to somalia under ethiopian surveillance .
they did not comment on whether the police had deserted or not .
' training the opposition ' currently , the transitional somali government is struggling to suppress the militia , including al-qaeda sympathisers al-shabaab , who control as much as two-thirds of the country .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opposition militia control two-thirds of somalia germany is one of several countries who have committed to training security personnel as in indirect method of trying to help , without military intervention .
however , according to ulrich delius from the society for threatened peoples , the problem is that most of these newly trained recruits " leave after a few months " to go and work for the armed opposition .
" you have to ensure that these people really stay in the official army or police , " delius told deutsche welle .
" otherwise you are just training the people you will be fighting in a few months . "
a report published by the head of the un monitoring group on somalia , dumisani kumalo in 2008 , said 80 percent of trained security officers deserted their posts , taking with them their weapons , uniforms and the acquired knowledge .
reasons for desertion at a time when the transitional government is barely keeping a hold on the north of somalia , deserters may feel they are better off siding with the militants than the government .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : weapons have become valuable commodities " no one is sure who will be the government of tomorrow … so they are switching to survive , " delius said .
" also , you need a weapon and whether you get it from the police or from the armed opposition , it does not matter . "
he added that money was another strong incentive for joining the militants , as " somali warlords often offer more money than the official army or police . "
in this case , german media reports that the somali police were waiting for their pay from the german government before they disappeared .
another reason for discontent may be due to the fact that the training took place in ethiopia – a country with a long , bloody history with somalia .
" there 's a very strong feeling against ethiopia in all parts of somali society , " said delius .
stabilization the german government has come under fire for not only partnering with ethiopia , but also according to some sources , bypassing the correct united nations procedures and ignoring sanctions against somalia .
however , the foreign ministry said in a statement that it had informed both the un contact group on somalia and the un sanctions committee .
in recent weeks , the government has reconfirmed its commitment to aiding somalia , most recently at the african union summit in kampala .
german foreign minister guido westerwelle said that the training of police in somalia was a " substantial contribution " to stabilizing the country .
ulrich delius argues however that all the projects for training security forces will continue to have no effect until politicians start to " understand the root of the problems in somalia . "
author : catherine bolsover editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de somalia taking center stage at african union summit somalia is once again dominating the agenda at the biannual summit of african leaders .
experts agree that the tactics need to change in somalia in order for peace to return to the country .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- investigation opens into german mercenaries in somalia the public prosecutor in the german city of muenster has opened an investigation into reports that a german security firm is sending mercenaries to a somali warlord amid concerns the deal violates un sanctions .
-lrb- 26.05.2010 -rrb- experts say west needs to change half-hearted approach to somalia a conference on somalia is being convened by the united nations in istanbul with the aim of showing support for the somali people .
but observers say the west 's half-hearted approach is doing more harm than good .
-lrb- 21.05.2010 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : the latest from germany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de peacekeeping -pipe- 30.07.2010 hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the somali police were trained in ethiopia , funded by germany almost 1,000 somali police have gone missing after their training was financed by the german government .
it is feared these officers will now join forces with the islamist militants al-shabaab . in september 2009 , the german government released $ 1 million -lrb- 760,000 euros -rrb- of funding to train somali police officers .
the training took place in ethiopia , and the new recruits were equipped with uniforms , weapons and knowledge with the aim of sending them back into somalia to try and keep peace in the fractured country .
two months after the completion of this training , almost 1,000 new police officers have reportedly disappeared en route to the somali capital mogadishu .
it is thought highly likely that these deserters have left to join opposition islamist militia in somalia .
in a statement , the german foreign office confirmed that funds were released to train somali police , and that in may 2010 , 925 trained officers were transported to somalia under ethiopian surveillance .
they did not comment on whether the police had deserted or not .
' training the opposition ' currently , the transitional somali government is struggling to suppress the militia , including al-qaeda sympathisers al-shabaab , who control as much as two-thirds of the country .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opposition militia control two-thirds of somalia germany is one of several countries who have committed to training security personnel as in indirect method of trying to help , without military intervention .
however , according to ulrich delius from the society for threatened peoples , the problem is that most of these newly trained recruits " leave after a few months " to go and work for the armed opposition .
" you have to ensure that these people really stay in the official army or police , " delius told deutsche welle .
" otherwise you are just training the people you will be fighting in a few months . "
a report published by the head of the un monitoring group on somalia , dumisani kumalo in 2008 , said 80 percent of trained security officers deserted their posts , taking with them their weapons , uniforms and the acquired knowledge .
reasons for desertion at a time when the transitional government is barely keeping a hold on the north of somalia , deserters may feel they are better off siding with the militants than the government .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : weapons have become valuable commodities " no one is sure who will be the government of tomorrow … so they are switching to survive , " delius said .
" also , you need a weapon and whether you get it from the police or from the armed opposition , it does not matter . "
he added that money was another strong incentive for joining the militants , as " somali warlords often offer more money than the official army or police . "
in this case , german media reports that the somali police were waiting for their pay from the german government before they disappeared .
another reason for discontent may be due to the fact that the training took place in ethiopia – a country with a long , bloody history with somalia .
" there 's a very strong feeling against ethiopia in all parts of somali society , " said delius .
stabilization the german government has come under fire for not only partnering with ethiopia , but also according to some sources , bypassing the correct united nations procedures and ignoring sanctions against somalia .
however , the foreign ministry said in a statement that it had informed both the un contact group on somalia and the un sanctions committee .
in recent weeks , the government has reconfirmed its commitment to aiding somalia , most recently at the african union summit in kampala .
german foreign minister guido westerwelle said that the training of police in somalia was a " substantial contribution " to stabilizing the country .
ulrich delius argues however that all the projects for training security forces will continue to have no effect until politicians start to " understand the root of the problems in somalia . "
author : catherine bolsover editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de somalia taking center stage at african union summit somalia is once again dominating the agenda at the biannual summit of african leaders .
experts agree that the tactics need to change in somalia in order for peace to return to the country .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- investigation opens into german mercenaries in somalia the public prosecutor in the german city of muenster has opened an investigation into reports that a german security firm is sending mercenaries to a somali warlord amid concerns the deal violates un sanctions .
-lrb- 26.05.2010 -rrb- experts say west needs to change half-hearted approach to somalia a conference on somalia is being convened by the united nations in istanbul with the aim of showing support for the somali people .
but observers say the west 's half-hearted approach is doing more harm than good .
-lrb- 21.05.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think training somali police will help restore order ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de peacekeeping -pipe- 30.07.2010 hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the somali police were trained in ethiopia , funded by germany almost 1,000 somali police have gone missing after their training was financed by the german government .
it is feared these officers will now join forces with the islamist militants al-shabaab . in september 2009 , the german government released $ 1 million -lrb- 760,000 euros -rrb- of funding to train somali police officers .
the training took place in ethiopia , and the new recruits were equipped with uniforms , weapons and knowledge with the aim of sending them back into somalia to try and keep peace in the fractured country .
two months after the completion of this training , almost 1,000 new police officers have reportedly disappeared en route to the somali capital mogadishu .
it is thought highly likely that these deserters have left to join opposition islamist militia in somalia .
in a statement , the german foreign office confirmed that funds were released to train somali police , and that in may 2010 , 925 trained officers were transported to somalia under ethiopian surveillance .
they did not comment on whether the police had deserted or not .
' training the opposition ' currently , the transitional somali government is struggling to suppress the militia , including al-qaeda sympathisers al-shabaab , who control as much as two-thirds of the country .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opposition militia control two-thirds of somalia germany is one of several countries who have committed to training security personnel as in indirect method of trying to help , without military intervention .
however , according to ulrich delius from the society for threatened peoples , the problem is that most of these newly trained recruits " leave after a few months " to go and work for the armed opposition .
" you have to ensure that these people really stay in the official army or police , " delius told deutsche welle .
" otherwise you are just training the people you will be fighting in a few months . "
a report published by the head of the un monitoring group on somalia , dumisani kumalo in 2008 , said 80 percent of trained security officers deserted their posts , taking with them their weapons , uniforms and the acquired knowledge .
reasons for desertion at a time when the transitional government is barely keeping a hold on the north of somalia , deserters may feel they are better off siding with the militants than the government .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : weapons have become valuable commodities " no one is sure who will be the government of tomorrow … so they are switching to survive , " delius said .
" also , you need a weapon and whether you get it from the police or from the armed opposition , it does not matter . "
he added that money was another strong incentive for joining the militants , as " somali warlords often offer more money than the official army or police . "
in this case , german media reports that the somali police were waiting for their pay from the german government before they disappeared .
another reason for discontent may be due to the fact that the training took place in ethiopia – a country with a long , bloody history with somalia .
" there 's a very strong feeling against ethiopia in all parts of somali society , " said delius .
stabilization the german government has come under fire for not only partnering with ethiopia , but also according to some sources , bypassing the correct united nations procedures and ignoring sanctions against somalia .
however , the foreign ministry said in a statement that it had informed both the un contact group on somalia and the un sanctions committee .
in recent weeks , the government has reconfirmed its commitment to aiding somalia , most recently at the african union summit in kampala .
german foreign minister guido westerwelle said that the training of police in somalia was a " substantial contribution " to stabilizing the country .
ulrich delius argues however that all the projects for training security forces will continue to have no effect until politicians start to " understand the root of the problems in somalia . "
author : catherine bolsover editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de somalia taking center stage at african union summit somalia is once again dominating the agenda at the biannual summit of african leaders .
experts agree that the tactics need to change in somalia in order for peace to return to the country .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- investigation opens into german mercenaries in somalia the public prosecutor in the german city of muenster has opened an investigation into reports that a german security firm is sending mercenaries to a somali warlord amid concerns the deal violates un sanctions .
-lrb- 26.05.2010 -rrb- experts say west needs to change half-hearted approach to somalia a conference on somalia is being convened by the united nations in istanbul with the aim of showing support for the somali people .
but observers say the west 's half-hearted approach is doing more harm than good .
-lrb- 21.05.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think training somali police will help restore order ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de peacekeeping -pipe- 30.07.2010 hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the somali police were trained in ethiopia , funded by germany almost 1,000 somali police have gone missing after their training was financed by the german government .
it is feared these officers will now join forces with the islamist militants al-shabaab . in september 2009 , the german government released $ 1 million -lrb- 760,000 euros -rrb- of funding to train somali police officers .
the training took place in ethiopia , and the new recruits were equipped with uniforms , weapons and knowledge with the aim of sending them back into somalia to try and keep peace in the fractured country .
two months after the completion of this training , almost 1,000 new police officers have reportedly disappeared en route to the somali capital mogadishu .
it is thought highly likely that these deserters have left to join opposition islamist militia in somalia .
in a statement , the german foreign office confirmed that funds were released to train somali police , and that in may 2010 , 925 trained officers were transported to somalia under ethiopian surveillance .
they did not comment on whether the police had deserted or not .
' training the opposition ' currently , the transitional somali government is struggling to suppress the militia , including al-qaeda sympathisers al-shabaab , who control as much as two-thirds of the country .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opposition militia control two-thirds of somalia germany is one of several countries who have committed to training security personnel as in indirect method of trying to help , without military intervention .
however , according to ulrich delius from the society for threatened peoples , the problem is that most of these newly trained recruits " leave after a few months " to go and work for the armed opposition .
" you have to ensure that these people really stay in the official army or police , " delius told deutsche welle .
" otherwise you are just training the people you will be fighting in a few months . "
a report published by the head of the un monitoring group on somalia , dumisani kumalo in 2008 , said 80 percent of trained security officers deserted their posts , taking with them their weapons , uniforms and the acquired knowledge .
reasons for desertion at a time when the transitional government is barely keeping a hold on the north of somalia , deserters may feel they are better off siding with the militants than the government .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : weapons have become valuable commodities " no one is sure who will be the government of tomorrow … so they are switching to survive , " delius said .
" also , you need a weapon and whether you get it from the police or from the armed opposition , it does not matter . "
he added that money was another strong incentive for joining the militants , as " somali warlords often offer more money than the official army or police . "
in this case , german media reports that the somali police were waiting for their pay from the german government before they disappeared .
another reason for discontent may be due to the fact that the training took place in ethiopia – a country with a long , bloody history with somalia .
" there 's a very strong feeling against ethiopia in all parts of somali society , " said delius .
stabilization the german government has come under fire for not only partnering with ethiopia , but also according to some sources , bypassing the correct united nations procedures and ignoring sanctions against somalia .
however , the foreign ministry said in a statement that it had informed both the un contact group on somalia and the un sanctions committee .
in recent weeks , the government has reconfirmed its commitment to aiding somalia , most recently at the african union summit in kampala .
german foreign minister guido westerwelle said that the training of police in somalia was a " substantial contribution " to stabilizing the country .
ulrich delius argues however that all the projects for training security forces will continue to have no effect until politicians start to " understand the root of the problems in somalia . "
author : catherine bolsover editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de somalia taking center stage at african union summit somalia is once again dominating the agenda at the biannual summit of african leaders .
experts agree that the tactics need to change in somalia in order for peace to return to the country .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- investigation opens into german mercenaries in somalia the public prosecutor in the german city of muenster has opened an investigation into reports that a german security firm is sending mercenaries to a somali warlord amid concerns the deal violates un sanctions .
-lrb- 26.05.2010 -rrb- experts say west needs to change half-hearted approach to somalia a conference on somalia is being convened by the united nations in istanbul with the aim of showing support for the somali people .
but observers say the west 's half-hearted approach is doing more harm than good .
-lrb- 21.05.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think training somali police will help restore order ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de peacekeeping -pipe- 30.07.2010 hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the somali police were trained in ethiopia , funded by germany almost 1,000 somali police have gone missing after their training was financed by the german government .
it is feared these officers will now join forces with the islamist militants al-shabaab . in september 2009 , the german government released $ 1 million -lrb- 760,000 euros -rrb- of funding to train somali police officers .
the training took place in ethiopia , and the new recruits were equipped with uniforms , weapons and knowledge with the aim of sending them back into somalia to try and keep peace in the fractured country .
two months after the completion of this training , almost 1,000 new police officers have reportedly disappeared en route to the somali capital mogadishu .
it is thought highly likely that these deserters have left to join opposition islamist militia in somalia .
in a statement , the german foreign office confirmed that funds were released to train somali police , and that in may 2010 , 925 trained officers were transported to somalia under ethiopian surveillance .
they did not comment on whether the police had deserted or not .
' training the opposition ' currently , the transitional somali government is struggling to suppress the militia , including al-qaeda sympathisers al-shabaab , who control as much as two-thirds of the country .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opposition militia control two-thirds of somalia germany is one of several countries who have committed to training security personnel as in indirect method of trying to help , without military intervention .
however , according to ulrich delius from the society for threatened peoples , the problem is that most of these newly trained recruits " leave after a few months " to go and work for the armed opposition .
" you have to ensure that these people really stay in the official army or police , " delius told deutsche welle .
" otherwise you are just training the people you will be fighting in a few months . "
a report published by the head of the un monitoring group on somalia , dumisani kumalo in 2008 , said 80 percent of trained security officers deserted their posts , taking with them their weapons , uniforms and the acquired knowledge .
reasons for desertion at a time when the transitional government is barely keeping a hold on the north of somalia , deserters may feel they are better off siding with the militants than the government .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : weapons have become valuable commodities " no one is sure who will be the government of tomorrow … so they are switching to survive , " delius said .
" also , you need a weapon and whether you get it from the police or from the armed opposition , it does not matter . "
he added that money was another strong incentive for joining the militants , as " somali warlords often offer more money than the official army or police . "
in this case , german media reports that the somali police were waiting for their pay from the german government before they disappeared .
another reason for discontent may be due to the fact that the training took place in ethiopia – a country with a long , bloody history with somalia .
" there 's a very strong feeling against ethiopia in all parts of somali society , " said delius .
stabilization the german government has come under fire for not only partnering with ethiopia , but also according to some sources , bypassing the correct united nations procedures and ignoring sanctions against somalia .
however , the foreign ministry said in a statement that it had informed both the un contact group on somalia and the un sanctions committee .
in recent weeks , the government has reconfirmed its commitment to aiding somalia , most recently at the african union summit in kampala .
german foreign minister guido westerwelle said that the training of police in somalia was a " substantial contribution " to stabilizing the country .
ulrich delius argues however that all the projects for training security forces will continue to have no effect until politicians start to " understand the root of the problems in somalia . "
author : catherine bolsover editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de somalia taking center stage at african union summit somalia is once again dominating the agenda at the biannual summit of african leaders .
experts agree that the tactics need to change in somalia in order for peace to return to the country .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- investigation opens into german mercenaries in somalia the public prosecutor in the german city of muenster has opened an investigation into reports that a german security firm is sending mercenaries to a somali warlord amid concerns the deal violates un sanctions .
-lrb- 26.05.2010 -rrb- experts say west needs to change half-hearted approach to somalia a conference on somalia is being convened by the united nations in istanbul with the aim of showing support for the somali people .
but observers say the west 's half-hearted approach is doing more harm than good .
-lrb- 21.05.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think training somali police will help restore order ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kremlin human rights adviser quits amidst retrograde rights climate -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 30.07.2010 kremlin human rights adviser quits amidst retrograde rights climate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pamfilova had grown tired of being persecuted the kremlin 's top human rights adviser has stepped down in the face of hostility from a pro-kremlin , nationalist youth group .
ella pamfilova had fought to make russia more just , but often came up against a brick wall . the chairman of russia 's presidential council on human rights resigned friday in a move widely seen as a protest against the deteriorating rights situation in russia . ella pamfilova , the activist who chaired president dmitry medvedev 's council on human rights and oversaw the development of civil society , resigned amidst heavy fire from the nashi nationalist youth group , as well as strong disagreement with medvedev 's human rights policies . " she wanted to resign because she had simply had enough of the persecution that was circling around her , " pamfilova 's fellow council member , irina yasina , told the interfax news agency . accused of slander the pro-kremlin youth movement nashi had threatened to sue pamfilova for slander after she criticized the group for an exhibition staged at its annual summer camp on lake seliger . the exhibition featured images of the heads of russian liberal leaders , such as 83-year-old human-rights activist lyudmila alexeyeva , stuck on stakes in nazi helmets . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the naschi youth group welcomed pamfilova 's resignation when images of the exhibition surfaced after president medvedev 's visit to the camp , pamfilova told the echo of moscow radio station she was " frightened " to realize " that these guys will come to power in a number of years . " " that will be terrible , " she said , adding , " that is intolerable - more so because the president has been there , at seliger . "
pamfilova , it seems , saw no way to continue working for the kremlin , which lends its full moral support to the nashi youth group .
she also accused the movement of burning books . " as chairman of the council , unfortunately i do not know what to do about this , apart from speak out and say that this is an outrage .
if these cynical guys who do n't care about anything , allow themselves anything , persecute people , because they know that adult men in high positions protect them , then that is terrible for the country , " she warned . ' men in high positions ' the day before pamfilova 's resignation , medvedev signed legislation to strengthen the fsb , the kgb 's secret-service successor - a move pamfilova 's council deemed the " rebirth of the unlawful and worst practices of a totalitarian state , with the goal of seeding fear and mistrust in the people . " she did not give specific reasons for her resignation , but said she planned to change her " sphere of activity " and that it would " definitely not be politics or state service . " pamfilova said that her decision to leave her post was not taken overnight . the activist had told european union officials in march that russia 's democratic institutions were underdeveloped and that there had been no significant progress in civil rights . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : activists had hoped medvedev would improve russia 's human rights the kremlin suggested in a statement to reporters that pamfilova 's departure was long in coming . " this is not the first time that this issue has appeared , " said medvedev 's spokeswoman natalya timakova . human rights groups have expressed their deep regret at pamfilova 's departure .
author : geert groot koerkamp -lrb- dl / ap / afp / reuters -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de russian upper house increases kgb successor 's power , to activists ' dismay president medvedev 's bill to increase secret police powers has won parliament 's approval .
human rights activists fear the government may use the law against the opposition , returning to a soviet-style police state .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- chechen activists still live in fear a year after colleague 's murder one year ago , one of chechnya 's best-known human rights activists was mysteriously abducted and murdered .
natalya estemirova 's death is still fresh in the minds of her colleagues , who fear it could happen again .
-lrb- 15.07.2010 -rrb- sakharov prize winner calls on eu to put more pressure on russia one of the leaders of the human rights group memorial used his acceptance speech for the sakharov prize in the european parliament to call on the european union to put more pressure on russia .
-lrb- 16.12.2009 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live talking germany - the german way of life we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live journey to mecca follow dw reporter ali almakhlafi on the hajj and get an inside view of the muslim pilgrimage .
ali 's journal : day 5 focus eye on defense nato meets in lisbon from nov .
19-20 for a summit to discuss the new challenges facing the alliance .
focus free at last focus on democracy : myanmar leader aung san suu kyi is free after seven years of house arrest .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live life at gitmo dw-tv visits guantanamo bay for a closer look at the infamous detention camp watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth al qaeda 's future deutsche welle takes a closer look at osama bin laden and the terrorist network he spearheaded .
podcast series omar from senegal advocates for refugees on spanish stages .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
caucasus violence explodes in the republic of dagestan amid militants ' efforts to create a muslim nation .
listen to the report .
bundles of booty where do dictators stash their cash ?
asset trackers use ' ladders ' to follow the money .
listen to the report .
transatlantic voices germany 's gremlins berlin needs an overdue debate on what the responsibility to protect means for germany and europe .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- 9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cairo crisis egypt 's military council has warned protesters it will move in to break up the demonstrations .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates feedback would you stay or would you go ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live stock exchange today in history 1818 : " stille nacht , heilige nacht " � silent night , holy © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates feedback would you stay or would you go ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
export champion - surteco makes the furniture industry go round freedom of movement - working across eu borders real estate boom - more and more people are investing in berlin audi and the dtm , part 3 - big race , big business stock exchange today in history 1953 : deutsche welle is launched © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live made in germany - das wirtschaftsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum a german e. coli update , the italian one-way sound shield , a shooting coffee machine , and izettle listen live stock exchange today in history 1494 : spain and portugal divide the world dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- feedback are megacities monsters or marvels ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 reader response feedback our readers and asia compact listeners love to send in their views .
here 's a selection .
global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media militancy there have been three militant attacks on the pakistan navy in karachi in less than a week .
former law minister of pakistan , iqbal haider , admits that his country 's security establishment is double-minded about the taliban border clashes a bitter dispute over border areas flares up again between cambodia and thailand .
dw 's robert carmichael explains how asean tries to mediate between its two members listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 28.04.11 cambodia and thailand sign a ceasefire after days of border clashes militants in pakistan 's port city karachi have targetted navy again former us president carter ends his north korean tour podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile prison break about 475 prisoners , mostly taliban fighters , managed to break out of a jail in kandahar on monday .
thomas ruttig of the afghanistan analysis network believes that the afghan government is corrupt and incompetent to run its affairs april asia quiz quiz of the month justice hate crime twelve men suspected of attacking members of the ahmadiyah community face trial in indonesia .
newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- 07 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media refugees thai immigration police released on bail pakistani refugees of the ahmadiyah muslim community .
veerawit tianchainan from the thai committee for refugees -lrb- tcr -rrb- explains why they had been detained in the immigration detention centre in bangkok korean peninsula remorse or repression ?
beijing offers financial compensation to families of the victims of the tiananmen massacre .
internet cyber attack the chinese government denies claims that a hacker in china was able to hack into google accounts .
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 06.06.11 thai authorities release pakistani refugees from the immigration detention center india conducts a survey to determine how many poor live in urban areas china seeks german nuclear know-how podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile china ethnic mongolians are calling for greater respect of their rights and traditions .
gardner bovingdon , china expert from indiana university , on whether this is going to put pressure on the chinese government security singapore is hosting the tenth asia security summit also known as the shangri-la dialogue .
yeo lay hwee from the singapore institute of international affairs talks about the security challenges in the asia-pacific human rights lives on the line nomadic herders risk their lives protesting in inner mongolia to save their way of life . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china party success china 's success depends on the communist party , but corruption might lead to catastrophe : hu foreign aid a helping hand the european commission has decided to help north korea tackle famine .
art ming vases chinese art collectors are traveling to europe to buy ancient works from their own country .
threatened communities preserving tribal communities and their habitats can help sustain the environment .
dr. james albert of the society for threatened peoples speaks about the dangers to tribals in india dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live stock exchange today in history 1841 : the birth of mass tourism dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kremlin human rights adviser quits amidst retrograde rights climate -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 30.07.2010 kremlin human rights adviser quits amidst retrograde rights climate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pamfilova had grown tired of being persecuted the kremlin 's top human rights adviser has stepped down in the face of hostility from a pro-kremlin , nationalist youth group .
ella pamfilova had fought to make russia more just , but often came up against a brick wall . the chairman of russia 's presidential council on human rights resigned friday in a move widely seen as a protest against the deteriorating rights situation in russia . ella pamfilova , the activist who chaired president dmitry medvedev 's council on human rights and oversaw the development of civil society , resigned amidst heavy fire from the nashi nationalist youth group , as well as strong disagreement with medvedev 's human rights policies . " she wanted to resign because she had simply had enough of the persecution that was circling around her , " pamfilova 's fellow council member , irina yasina , told the interfax news agency . accused of slander the pro-kremlin youth movement nashi had threatened to sue pamfilova for slander after she criticized the group for an exhibition staged at its annual summer camp on lake seliger . the exhibition featured images of the heads of russian liberal leaders , such as 83-year-old human-rights activist lyudmila alexeyeva , stuck on stakes in nazi helmets . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the naschi youth group welcomed pamfilova 's resignation when images of the exhibition surfaced after president medvedev 's visit to the camp , pamfilova told the echo of moscow radio station she was " frightened " to realize " that these guys will come to power in a number of years . " " that will be terrible , " she said , adding , " that is intolerable - more so because the president has been there , at seliger . "
pamfilova , it seems , saw no way to continue working for the kremlin , which lends its full moral support to the nashi youth group .
she also accused the movement of burning books . " as chairman of the council , unfortunately i do not know what to do about this , apart from speak out and say that this is an outrage .
if these cynical guys who do n't care about anything , allow themselves anything , persecute people , because they know that adult men in high positions protect them , then that is terrible for the country , " she warned . ' men in high positions ' the day before pamfilova 's resignation , medvedev signed legislation to strengthen the fsb , the kgb 's secret-service successor - a move pamfilova 's council deemed the " rebirth of the unlawful and worst practices of a totalitarian state , with the goal of seeding fear and mistrust in the people . " she did not give specific reasons for her resignation , but said she planned to change her " sphere of activity " and that it would " definitely not be politics or state service . " pamfilova said that her decision to leave her post was not taken overnight . the activist had told european union officials in march that russia 's democratic institutions were underdeveloped and that there had been no significant progress in civil rights . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : activists had hoped medvedev would improve russia 's human rights the kremlin suggested in a statement to reporters that pamfilova 's departure was long in coming . " this is not the first time that this issue has appeared , " said medvedev 's spokeswoman natalya timakova . human rights groups have expressed their deep regret at pamfilova 's departure .
author : geert groot koerkamp -lrb- dl / ap / afp / reuters -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de russian upper house increases kgb successor 's power , to activists ' dismay president medvedev 's bill to increase secret police powers has won parliament 's approval .
human rights activists fear the government may use the law against the opposition , returning to a soviet-style police state .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- chechen activists still live in fear a year after colleague 's murder one year ago , one of chechnya 's best-known human rights activists was mysteriously abducted and murdered .
natalya estemirova 's death is still fresh in the minds of her colleagues , who fear it could happen again .
-lrb- 15.07.2010 -rrb- sakharov prize winner calls on eu to put more pressure on russia one of the leaders of the human rights group memorial used his acceptance speech for the sakharov prize in the european parliament to call on the european union to put more pressure on russia .
-lrb- 16.12.2009 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio tour de danger two accidents involving media vehicles has some wondering if the tour de france is too dangerous .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback have google 's actions concerned you ?
do you worry about online data protection ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback have google 's actions concerned you ?
do you worry about online data protection ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany - the business magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- feedback are a turkish-german who has moved to turkey ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us group pressures deutsche bank to maintain rundown properties -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de housing -pipe- 30.07.2010 us group pressures deutsche bank to maintain rundown properties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : homes values in the sherman park area of milwaukee has fallen substantially the financial crisis has left thousands of homes vacant in the us city of milwaukee .
residents there are placing part of the blame for the mess at deutsche bank 's door . the people of milwaukee are proud of their city .
they enjoy its proximity to lake michigan , an abundance of parks and high-class restaurants .
but the financial crisis has hit the wisconsin city hard .
thousands of houses have been foreclosed , their owners evicted because they could no longer repay their loans . for the people in the sherman park neighborhood , the crisis is a nightmare that 's turned the area around their homes into a wasteland .
a shop named " milk and honey " is located on 51st street , but the fact is there has n't been anything sweet or creamy about this part of the city since the beginning of the financial crisis . " i feel like i need to leave , " said dolly turnbull , who has lived in sherman park for 31 years .
" but i ca n't because that 's exactly what 's going to make it fall apart . " widespread disrepair bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : giaimo said deutsche bank is partly responsible for the state of homes in sherman park drug dealers have moved into some of the rundown properties .
many streets have fallen into disrepair , and half the homes are empty .
one of the houses covered in graffiti .
" get money , " it says on the wall .
the paper boy still delivers free newspapers to the house , but with no one there to collect them they pile up on the porch .
this property was once worth $ 100,000 -lrb- 76,550 euros -rrb- .
with almost the whole street in bad shape , the price is down to $ 10,000 . until three months ago , it did n't look as if anything were about to change .
but that 's when the people of milwaukee shifted their gaze from their own streets to far-way germany .
they accused germany 's biggest bank , deutsche bank , of being responsible for a large part of the mess .
it 's ironic , they said , given that it was mostly german immigrants who settled in milwaukee back in the 1840s . susan giaimo , a milwaukee professor in political science , travelled to frankfurt in may .
she wanted to stir things up on deutsche bank 's home turf . " deutsche bank is destroying milwaukee homes , " she said .
" germany built milwaukee and now a german bank is destroying milwaukee homes . " deutsche bank 's role in housing crisis bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of homes have been foreclosed on giaimo works with the community organization named common ground of wisconsin .
deutsche bank is much more involved in the housing crisis than it likes to admit , according to the group .
the company bought up large packages of mortgages and resold them for a profit , and it serves as trustee for thousands of milwaukee homes - many of which have been foreclosed on or are considered at-risk .
according to deutsche bank , the company is trustee of 1 million houses across the united states .
that makes deutsche bank accountable for what is happening with the houses , according to common ground . " the banks made money on these subprime mortgages and we want them to take responsibility , " giaimo said . but deutsche bank said there is not much it can do to improve the situation in the perplexing us mortgage market .
the market is made up investors that buy large packages of mortgages .
then there are trustees that administer these packages .
and there are servicers that collect the payments from the house owners and have to take care of foreclosed homes . as trustee , deutsche bank has said it is not directly involved in what happens to the properties .
a spokesperson told deutsche welle it would be illegal for the bank to interfere too much with the operations of other companies involved in the properties ' management .
deutsche bank 's role is , therefore , an administrative one , the spokesman added . but that 's difficult to explain to people receiving foreclosure orders bearing the deutsche bank logo .
it 's the german company that legally owns the loans . trash , grass and broken windows bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : deutsche bank said it would talk to mortgage services about the problem in wisconsin at a meeting in july , the city of milwaukee tried to sort things out .
all major banks came to the city hall - including deutsche bank . listing thousands of violations , city officials said the servicers are doing a lousy job maintaining the properties they are meant to be taking care of .
trash is littered through the high grass and broken windows abound .
the properties with the highest number of violations were managed in deutsche bank trusts .
" we 're not asking too much of the financial institutions , " alderman michael murphy said .
" the united states government helped bailout banks and now local government is bailing them out in maintaining their properties .
this is not acceptable . " deutsche bank has promised to talk to the servicers and ask them to improve the job they are doing .
the bank also agreed to discuss plans to invest in milwaukee . the city has given deutsche bank and its competitors six weeks to lift its game .
otherwise it will consider legal action . author : benjamin hammer editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de top german banker found guilty of market manipulation the former chief of german bank ikb has been found guilty of market manipulation and given a 10-month suspended sentence .
he was also given a hefty fine for misstating investment risks .
-lrb- 14.07.2010 -rrb- us probe looks into international banks and ratings agencies , reports say new york 's attorney general has begun investigating eight banks , including deutsche bank , on their relationships with ratings agencies .
-lrb- 13.05.2010 -rrb- deutsche bank reveals uk bonus tax , posts profits deutsche bank ceo josef ackermann said the bank has set aside 225 million euros -lrb- $ 314 million -rrb- to pay a one-off uk tax on bankers ' bonuses .
he also said he expects industry pay to decline in coming years .
-lrb- 06.02.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic milwaukee homeowners call on deutsche bank to stop urban decay 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 - das globalisierungsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live stock exchange today in history 1841 : the birth of mass tourism dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 30.07.2010 nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : each of president goodluck jonathan 's posts draw between 1,000 and 2,000 comments president goodluck jonathan has attracted over 144,000 facebook fans in just a few short weeks , and he writes his own posts every day , in english , drawing thousands of comments . last week , facebook announced that it had passed 500 million member mark .
but one of its newer members is nigerian president goodluck jonathan , who is posting up a storm on his facebook page .
over 144,000 people have said that they like his facebook page , where he posts in english about his daily political activities .
president jonathan is more popular on facebook than german chancellor angela merkel , who only has around 42,000 fans , but still significantly trails the world ’ s most popular online politician , barack obama , who has over 11.5 million fans .
online nigerians seem to be very excited at their president ’ s adoption of the popular social networking site as he seems to be riding the wave of increasing popularity for the site in nigeria .
" this is a real change , but a good change , " said a woman in an internet café in sokoto in northwestern nigeria .
" it allows all of nigeria the ability to give their opinions directly to the politicians .
when there are problems , then they can set them straight .
before the president there were already a few other politicians on facebook .
they give their opinions on various topics , just like we do , without being afraid of being arrested .
this reduces the gulf between the politicians and the people . "
already , around one million nigerians have signed up for facebook .
with that kind of audience , the social networking site has become very attractive to many politicians .
they see it as a way to get into discussions with their fellow countrymen , and as a way to air their thoughts and hopefully , to build support .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president jonathan has over 144,000 fans on facebook facebook has influenced political decisions yakuba musa , who works on the nigerian president 's public relations team , describes the first facebook day as a huge success .
and though he helped initiate that idea , he says he ’ s not the one writing the president ’ s posts .
" the president does it himself , " he told deutsche welle .
" and if you look at it , it has been influencing some of the decisions that he has been taking , for example , the nigerian football association .
the president reversed his decision -lrb- to ban the team from international play over their poor world cup performance -rrb- and subsequently , on the website he said that he based his decision on some comments that he got from nigerians . "
jonathan does n't only write about soccer .
he discusses other things that have been troubling his people for a long time : the inconsistent and insufficient electricity production , say , or environmental problems in the niger delta .
and it seems the nigerians have taken to the idea of a conversation with their head of state .
each entry by the president quickly attracts between 1,500 and 2,000 comments .
at the same internet cafe in sokoto , abdurrahman mohammed is also excited about the new opportunities the web has brought .
" i opened a facebook page because i saw how many other people were getting on the social network , " he said .
" i can use facebook to let people know what i think .
and i hope i can do my bit to make so many things in my country and the world better .
i think what our president has done is great .
it 's good for all nigerians . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : of nigeria 's 11 million internet users , only around one million of them are on facebook muslim leaders also seek new followers on facebook and it is n't just politicians and regular citizens in nigeria who have discovered the internet and social networks .
muslim imams are also trying to gain new followers by using facebook .
usman aliyu is one of them .
he uses facebook as a platform to discuss religious and social issues .
" i opened a facebook page because i want to know how people act within the social network , " he said .
" we ’ ve seen that many young people are very active on facebook .
so we use that as a way to show how religious concepts and the correct way of acting applies to their daily lives , " he explained .
lawal aliyu is exactly the kind of person the imam is targeting , but he does n't have time for what he sees as small ideas .
to him facebook is more about getting out into the world .
" facebook is a website where people can give their opinions or discuss problems , " he said .
" in our country , people often do n't always have courage to say what they think in public .
but on facebook they can write what they want .
the whole world can see it , react to it and make suggestions . "
author : mohammad awal -lrb- cf -rrb- editor : ranjitha balasubramanyam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german officials charge facebook with privacy violations german data protection officials go after facebook for storing personal data of non-users .
meanwhile , another official advocates creating a smartphone app for users to track personal information gathered about them .
-lrb- 08.07.2010 -rrb- nigerian president 's death could trigger sectarian violence nigerian president umaru yar 'adua has died following a long illness that had sparked a leadership crisis in the country .
analysts expect his succession to be the most hotly contested since nigeria 's return to democracy .
-lrb- 06.05.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic nigerian president interacts with citizens on facebook 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
the podcast 's homepage somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
travel take a close-up look at some of europe 's most exciting cities .
oxford , britain schwerin , germany las palmas , spain reykjavik , iceland darmstadt , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- feedback to what extent should berlin hinder the process of gentrification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
literature looking for a good book ?
book review : rabinowich 's ' splithead ' depicts east-west divide visit the new books in german website podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 11 - jupiter jones are moving on up subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 30.07.2010 nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : each of president goodluck jonathan 's posts draw between 1,000 and 2,000 comments president goodluck jonathan has attracted over 144,000 facebook fans in just a few short weeks , and he writes his own posts every day , in english , drawing thousands of comments . last week , facebook announced that it had passed 500 million member mark .
but one of its newer members is nigerian president goodluck jonathan , who is posting up a storm on his facebook page .
over 144,000 people have said that they like his facebook page , where he posts in english about his daily political activities .
president jonathan is more popular on facebook than german chancellor angela merkel , who only has around 42,000 fans , but still significantly trails the world ’ s most popular online politician , barack obama , who has over 11.5 million fans .
online nigerians seem to be very excited at their president ’ s adoption of the popular social networking site as he seems to be riding the wave of increasing popularity for the site in nigeria .
" this is a real change , but a good change , " said a woman in an internet café in sokoto in northwestern nigeria .
" it allows all of nigeria the ability to give their opinions directly to the politicians .
when there are problems , then they can set them straight .
before the president there were already a few other politicians on facebook .
they give their opinions on various topics , just like we do , without being afraid of being arrested .
this reduces the gulf between the politicians and the people . "
already , around one million nigerians have signed up for facebook .
with that kind of audience , the social networking site has become very attractive to many politicians .
they see it as a way to get into discussions with their fellow countrymen , and as a way to air their thoughts and hopefully , to build support .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president jonathan has over 144,000 fans on facebook facebook has influenced political decisions yakuba musa , who works on the nigerian president 's public relations team , describes the first facebook day as a huge success .
and though he helped initiate that idea , he says he ’ s not the one writing the president ’ s posts .
" the president does it himself , " he told deutsche welle .
" and if you look at it , it has been influencing some of the decisions that he has been taking , for example , the nigerian football association .
the president reversed his decision -lrb- to ban the team from international play over their poor world cup performance -rrb- and subsequently , on the website he said that he based his decision on some comments that he got from nigerians . "
jonathan does n't only write about soccer .
he discusses other things that have been troubling his people for a long time : the inconsistent and insufficient electricity production , say , or environmental problems in the niger delta .
and it seems the nigerians have taken to the idea of a conversation with their head of state .
each entry by the president quickly attracts between 1,500 and 2,000 comments .
at the same internet cafe in sokoto , abdurrahman mohammed is also excited about the new opportunities the web has brought .
" i opened a facebook page because i saw how many other people were getting on the social network , " he said .
" i can use facebook to let people know what i think .
and i hope i can do my bit to make so many things in my country and the world better .
i think what our president has done is great .
it 's good for all nigerians . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : of nigeria 's 11 million internet users , only around one million of them are on facebook muslim leaders also seek new followers on facebook and it is n't just politicians and regular citizens in nigeria who have discovered the internet and social networks .
muslim imams are also trying to gain new followers by using facebook .
usman aliyu is one of them .
he uses facebook as a platform to discuss religious and social issues .
" i opened a facebook page because i want to know how people act within the social network , " he said .
" we ’ ve seen that many young people are very active on facebook .
so we use that as a way to show how religious concepts and the correct way of acting applies to their daily lives , " he explained .
lawal aliyu is exactly the kind of person the imam is targeting , but he does n't have time for what he sees as small ideas .
to him facebook is more about getting out into the world .
" facebook is a website where people can give their opinions or discuss problems , " he said .
" in our country , people often do n't always have courage to say what they think in public .
but on facebook they can write what they want .
the whole world can see it , react to it and make suggestions . "
author : mohammad awal -lrb- cf -rrb- editor : ranjitha balasubramanyam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german officials charge facebook with privacy violations german data protection officials go after facebook for storing personal data of non-users .
meanwhile , another official advocates creating a smartphone app for users to track personal information gathered about them .
-lrb- 08.07.2010 -rrb- nigerian president 's death could trigger sectarian violence nigerian president umaru yar 'adua has died following a long illness that had sparked a leadership crisis in the country .
analysts expect his succession to be the most hotly contested since nigeria 's return to democracy .
-lrb- 06.05.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic nigerian president interacts with citizens on facebook 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 30.07.2010 nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : each of president goodluck jonathan 's posts draw between 1,000 and 2,000 comments president goodluck jonathan has attracted over 144,000 facebook fans in just a few short weeks , and he writes his own posts every day , in english , drawing thousands of comments . last week , facebook announced that it had passed 500 million member mark .
but one of its newer members is nigerian president goodluck jonathan , who is posting up a storm on his facebook page .
over 144,000 people have said that they like his facebook page , where he posts in english about his daily political activities .
president jonathan is more popular on facebook than german chancellor angela merkel , who only has around 42,000 fans , but still significantly trails the world ’ s most popular online politician , barack obama , who has over 11.5 million fans .
online nigerians seem to be very excited at their president ’ s adoption of the popular social networking site as he seems to be riding the wave of increasing popularity for the site in nigeria .
" this is a real change , but a good change , " said a woman in an internet café in sokoto in northwestern nigeria .
" it allows all of nigeria the ability to give their opinions directly to the politicians .
when there are problems , then they can set them straight .
before the president there were already a few other politicians on facebook .
they give their opinions on various topics , just like we do , without being afraid of being arrested .
this reduces the gulf between the politicians and the people . "
already , around one million nigerians have signed up for facebook .
with that kind of audience , the social networking site has become very attractive to many politicians .
they see it as a way to get into discussions with their fellow countrymen , and as a way to air their thoughts and hopefully , to build support .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president jonathan has over 144,000 fans on facebook facebook has influenced political decisions yakuba musa , who works on the nigerian president 's public relations team , describes the first facebook day as a huge success .
and though he helped initiate that idea , he says he ’ s not the one writing the president ’ s posts .
" the president does it himself , " he told deutsche welle .
" and if you look at it , it has been influencing some of the decisions that he has been taking , for example , the nigerian football association .
the president reversed his decision -lrb- to ban the team from international play over their poor world cup performance -rrb- and subsequently , on the website he said that he based his decision on some comments that he got from nigerians . "
jonathan does n't only write about soccer .
he discusses other things that have been troubling his people for a long time : the inconsistent and insufficient electricity production , say , or environmental problems in the niger delta .
and it seems the nigerians have taken to the idea of a conversation with their head of state .
each entry by the president quickly attracts between 1,500 and 2,000 comments .
at the same internet cafe in sokoto , abdurrahman mohammed is also excited about the new opportunities the web has brought .
" i opened a facebook page because i saw how many other people were getting on the social network , " he said .
" i can use facebook to let people know what i think .
and i hope i can do my bit to make so many things in my country and the world better .
i think what our president has done is great .
it 's good for all nigerians . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : of nigeria 's 11 million internet users , only around one million of them are on facebook muslim leaders also seek new followers on facebook and it is n't just politicians and regular citizens in nigeria who have discovered the internet and social networks .
muslim imams are also trying to gain new followers by using facebook .
usman aliyu is one of them .
he uses facebook as a platform to discuss religious and social issues .
" i opened a facebook page because i want to know how people act within the social network , " he said .
" we ’ ve seen that many young people are very active on facebook .
so we use that as a way to show how religious concepts and the correct way of acting applies to their daily lives , " he explained .
lawal aliyu is exactly the kind of person the imam is targeting , but he does n't have time for what he sees as small ideas .
to him facebook is more about getting out into the world .
" facebook is a website where people can give their opinions or discuss problems , " he said .
" in our country , people often do n't always have courage to say what they think in public .
but on facebook they can write what they want .
the whole world can see it , react to it and make suggestions . "
author : mohammad awal -lrb- cf -rrb- editor : ranjitha balasubramanyam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german officials charge facebook with privacy violations german data protection officials go after facebook for storing personal data of non-users .
meanwhile , another official advocates creating a smartphone app for users to track personal information gathered about them .
-lrb- 08.07.2010 -rrb- nigerian president 's death could trigger sectarian violence nigerian president umaru yar 'adua has died following a long illness that had sparked a leadership crisis in the country .
analysts expect his succession to be the most hotly contested since nigeria 's return to democracy .
-lrb- 06.05.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic nigerian president interacts with citizens on facebook feedback do you think politicians should be on facebook ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 30.07.2010 nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : each of president goodluck jonathan 's posts draw between 1,000 and 2,000 comments president goodluck jonathan has attracted over 144,000 facebook fans in just a few short weeks , and he writes his own posts every day , in english , drawing thousands of comments . last week , facebook announced that it had passed 500 million member mark .
but one of its newer members is nigerian president goodluck jonathan , who is posting up a storm on his facebook page .
over 144,000 people have said that they like his facebook page , where he posts in english about his daily political activities .
president jonathan is more popular on facebook than german chancellor angela merkel , who only has around 42,000 fans , but still significantly trails the world ’ s most popular online politician , barack obama , who has over 11.5 million fans .
online nigerians seem to be very excited at their president ’ s adoption of the popular social networking site as he seems to be riding the wave of increasing popularity for the site in nigeria .
" this is a real change , but a good change , " said a woman in an internet café in sokoto in northwestern nigeria .
" it allows all of nigeria the ability to give their opinions directly to the politicians .
when there are problems , then they can set them straight .
before the president there were already a few other politicians on facebook .
they give their opinions on various topics , just like we do , without being afraid of being arrested .
this reduces the gulf between the politicians and the people . "
already , around one million nigerians have signed up for facebook .
with that kind of audience , the social networking site has become very attractive to many politicians .
they see it as a way to get into discussions with their fellow countrymen , and as a way to air their thoughts and hopefully , to build support .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president jonathan has over 144,000 fans on facebook facebook has influenced political decisions yakuba musa , who works on the nigerian president 's public relations team , describes the first facebook day as a huge success .
and though he helped initiate that idea , he says he ’ s not the one writing the president ’ s posts .
" the president does it himself , " he told deutsche welle .
" and if you look at it , it has been influencing some of the decisions that he has been taking , for example , the nigerian football association .
the president reversed his decision -lrb- to ban the team from international play over their poor world cup performance -rrb- and subsequently , on the website he said that he based his decision on some comments that he got from nigerians . "
jonathan does n't only write about soccer .
he discusses other things that have been troubling his people for a long time : the inconsistent and insufficient electricity production , say , or environmental problems in the niger delta .
and it seems the nigerians have taken to the idea of a conversation with their head of state .
each entry by the president quickly attracts between 1,500 and 2,000 comments .
at the same internet cafe in sokoto , abdurrahman mohammed is also excited about the new opportunities the web has brought .
" i opened a facebook page because i saw how many other people were getting on the social network , " he said .
" i can use facebook to let people know what i think .
and i hope i can do my bit to make so many things in my country and the world better .
i think what our president has done is great .
it 's good for all nigerians . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : of nigeria 's 11 million internet users , only around one million of them are on facebook muslim leaders also seek new followers on facebook and it is n't just politicians and regular citizens in nigeria who have discovered the internet and social networks .
muslim imams are also trying to gain new followers by using facebook .
usman aliyu is one of them .
he uses facebook as a platform to discuss religious and social issues .
" i opened a facebook page because i want to know how people act within the social network , " he said .
" we ’ ve seen that many young people are very active on facebook .
so we use that as a way to show how religious concepts and the correct way of acting applies to their daily lives , " he explained .
lawal aliyu is exactly the kind of person the imam is targeting , but he does n't have time for what he sees as small ideas .
to him facebook is more about getting out into the world .
" facebook is a website where people can give their opinions or discuss problems , " he said .
" in our country , people often do n't always have courage to say what they think in public .
but on facebook they can write what they want .
the whole world can see it , react to it and make suggestions . "
author : mohammad awal -lrb- cf -rrb- editor : ranjitha balasubramanyam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german officials charge facebook with privacy violations german data protection officials go after facebook for storing personal data of non-users .
meanwhile , another official advocates creating a smartphone app for users to track personal information gathered about them .
-lrb- 08.07.2010 -rrb- nigerian president 's death could trigger sectarian violence nigerian president umaru yar 'adua has died following a long illness that had sparked a leadership crisis in the country .
analysts expect his succession to be the most hotly contested since nigeria 's return to democracy .
-lrb- 06.05.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic nigerian president interacts with citizens on facebook feedback do you think politicians should be on facebook ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- feedback to what extent should berlin hinder the process of gentrification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
picture gallery christmas markets holiday cheer ís easy to come by during the advent season in germany .
travel explore some of europe 's most fascinating cities with dw-tv 's euromaxx .
athens , greece trieste , italy krakow , poland le mans , france tarragona , spain oslo , norway edinburgh , scotland dresden , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
export champion - surteco makes the furniture industry go round freedom of movement - working across eu borders real estate boom - more and more people are investing in berlin audi and the dtm , part 3 - big race , big business stock exchange today in history 1977 : judgment passed in stammheim © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1818 : " stille nacht , heilige nacht " � silent night , holy © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- 07 dw-tv europe live arts.21 - the cultural magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
women 's world cup live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's next match against france : july 5 , 18:30 utc dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report corruption soccer scandal turkish police arrest 60 people in turkey 's biggest ever soccer match-fixing scandal .
anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kremlin human rights adviser quits amidst retrograde rights climate -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 30.07.2010 kremlin human rights adviser quits amidst retrograde rights climate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pamfilova had grown tired of being persecuted the kremlin 's top human rights adviser has stepped down in the face of hostility from a pro-kremlin , nationalist youth group .
ella pamfilova had fought to make russia more just , but often came up against a brick wall . the chairman of russia 's presidential council on human rights resigned friday in a move widely seen as a protest against the deteriorating rights situation in russia . ella pamfilova , the activist who chaired president dmitry medvedev 's council on human rights and oversaw the development of civil society , resigned amidst heavy fire from the nashi nationalist youth group , as well as strong disagreement with medvedev 's human rights policies . " she wanted to resign because she had simply had enough of the persecution that was circling around her , " pamfilova 's fellow council member , irina yasina , told the interfax news agency . accused of slander the pro-kremlin youth movement nashi had threatened to sue pamfilova for slander after she criticized the group for an exhibition staged at its annual summer camp on lake seliger . the exhibition featured images of the heads of russian liberal leaders , such as 83-year-old human-rights activist lyudmila alexeyeva , stuck on stakes in nazi helmets . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the naschi youth group welcomed pamfilova 's resignation when images of the exhibition surfaced after president medvedev 's visit to the camp , pamfilova told the echo of moscow radio station she was " frightened " to realize " that these guys will come to power in a number of years . " " that will be terrible , " she said , adding , " that is intolerable - more so because the president has been there , at seliger . "
pamfilova , it seems , saw no way to continue working for the kremlin , which lends its full moral support to the nashi youth group .
she also accused the movement of burning books . " as chairman of the council , unfortunately i do not know what to do about this , apart from speak out and say that this is an outrage .
if these cynical guys who do n't care about anything , allow themselves anything , persecute people , because they know that adult men in high positions protect them , then that is terrible for the country , " she warned . ' men in high positions ' the day before pamfilova 's resignation , medvedev signed legislation to strengthen the fsb , the kgb 's secret-service successor - a move pamfilova 's council deemed the " rebirth of the unlawful and worst practices of a totalitarian state , with the goal of seeding fear and mistrust in the people . " she did not give specific reasons for her resignation , but said she planned to change her " sphere of activity " and that it would " definitely not be politics or state service . " pamfilova said that her decision to leave her post was not taken overnight . the activist had told european union officials in march that russia 's democratic institutions were underdeveloped and that there had been no significant progress in civil rights . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : activists had hoped medvedev would improve russia 's human rights the kremlin suggested in a statement to reporters that pamfilova 's departure was long in coming . " this is not the first time that this issue has appeared , " said medvedev 's spokeswoman natalya timakova . human rights groups have expressed their deep regret at pamfilova 's departure .
author : geert groot koerkamp -lrb- dl / ap / afp / reuters -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de russian upper house increases kgb successor 's power , to activists ' dismay president medvedev 's bill to increase secret police powers has won parliament 's approval .
human rights activists fear the government may use the law against the opposition , returning to a soviet-style police state .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- chechen activists still live in fear a year after colleague 's murder one year ago , one of chechnya 's best-known human rights activists was mysteriously abducted and murdered .
natalya estemirova 's death is still fresh in the minds of her colleagues , who fear it could happen again .
-lrb- 15.07.2010 -rrb- sakharov prize winner calls on eu to put more pressure on russia one of the leaders of the human rights group memorial used his acceptance speech for the sakharov prize in the european parliament to call on the european union to put more pressure on russia .
-lrb- 16.12.2009 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art the 54th biennale contemporary art festival in venice spotlights artists from 88 countries .
watch the video turkey turkey 's opposition has undergone a makeover and is touting new rights for minority kurds .
listen to the audio nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour early music days in regensburg -lrb- 1 -rrb- listen live stock exchange today in history 1841 : the birth of mass tourism dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live talking germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live stock exchange today in history 1740 : frederick ii crowned dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china party success china 's success depends on the communist party , but corruption might lead to catastrophe : hu foreign aid a helping hand the european commission has decided to help north korea tackle famine .
art ming vases chinese art collectors are traveling to europe to buy ancient works from their own country .
threatened communities preserving tribal communities and their habitats can help sustain the environment .
dr. james albert of the society for threatened peoples speaks about the dangers to tribals in india dw-tv europe live discover germany - the tv travel guide we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook energy researchers hope nuclear fusion reactors could put an end to the world 's energy problems .
endless energy health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
quiz take the quiz - win an ipad !
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards voting is underway at the bobs - deutsche welle 's annual blog contest .
cast your ballot social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you agree that there is war in afghanistan because the international troops are there ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 reader response feedback our readers and asia compact listeners love to send in their views .
here 's a selection .
global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media militancy there have been three militant attacks on the pakistan navy in karachi in less than a week .
former law minister of pakistan , iqbal haider , admits that his country 's security establishment is double-minded about the taliban border clashes a bitter dispute over border areas flares up again between cambodia and thailand .
dw 's robert carmichael explains how asean tries to mediate between its two members listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 28.04.11 cambodia and thailand sign a ceasefire after days of border clashes militants in pakistan 's port city karachi have targetted navy again former us president carter ends his north korean tour podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile prison break about 475 prisoners , mostly taliban fighters , managed to break out of a jail in kandahar on monday .
thomas ruttig of the afghanistan analysis network believes that the afghan government is corrupt and incompetent to run its affairs april asia quiz quiz of the month justice hate crime twelve men suspected of attacking members of the ahmadiyah community face trial in indonesia .
newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you agree that there is war in afghanistan because the international troops are there ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 interview suu kyi calls for more support from europe the burmese civil rights activist talks to dw in an exclusive interview .
december asia quiz quiz of the month exhibition celebrating indian waste collectors a young german photographer has focused on waste and waste collectors in india .
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 17.12.10 obama 's afpak strategy review japan revises security policy wikileaks reveals kashmir torture reports podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online asia compact join us on facebook !
fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you agree that there is war in afghanistan because the international troops are there ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 october asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 26.10.10 afghan president karzai insists on banning private security firms german firms try to get a piece of china ’ s green energy market land reform bill in pakistan unlikely to get past first base podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
asia compact join us on facebook !
islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you agree that there is war in afghanistan because the international troops are there ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 millenium development goals ten years into the millenium development goals campaign , the picture is mixed in asia .
anuradha rajivan from the undp in bangkok talks about the successes and failures regarding the mdgs in asia reader response feedback on kashmir , korea and other issues our readers and asia compact listeners are passionate about sending in their views .
september asia quiz quiz of the month pakistan the catastrophe click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 22.09.10 mixed progress regarding mdgs in asia coal ash poses major problem in china vietnamese author the dung talks to ac in berlin podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you agree that there is war in afghanistan because the international troops are there ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media japanese economy japan 's earthquake and tsunami are likely to affect the japanese economy in the coming weeks .
the world bank 's representative in washington , vikram nehru , believes it all depends on how well the japanese cope with the nculear issue libya air strikes china 's state media condemned military strikes on libya , saying they are a western grab for power .
gui hao , china expert at deutsche welle 's asia department , talks about the implications of the enhanced rhetoric march asia quiz quiz of the month digital stories deutsche welle 's partner website from pakistan listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 24.03.11 tibet exile government accepts dalai lama 's retirement gurkhas in britain fight for their rights dark times ahead for indian ' god-men ' podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1942 : the diary of anne frank dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - highlights of the week we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1918 : the murder of the tsar family dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates feedback would you stay or would you go ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live stock exchange today in history 1876 : konrad adenauer © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates feedback would you stay or would you go ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1964 : gdr senior citizens allowed to travel to the west © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates feedback would you stay or would you go ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1919 : the stab-in-the-back legend © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates feedback would you stay or would you go ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week money , power and heavy metal : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
olkiluoto 3 - finland builds the world 's biggest nuclear power plant nuclear power plants : after a shutdown peter paffhausen : from nuclear manager to green energy advocate heightened fears : geiger counters fly off the shelves stock exchange today in history 1871 : the paris commune © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates feedback would you stay or would you go ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1949 : founding of german federation of trade unions © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- 9798 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media fukushima human error a report for the iaea points to human error as the cause of japan 's worst nuclear disaster .
biodiversity saving the rare saola wwf says the establishment of a nature reserve in vietnam has brought new survival hopes for saolas .
employment indecent concentration of wealth is making life more difficult for common people .
thetis mangahas speaks on the employment situation in asia politics the afghan president hamid karzai is in pakistan to talk about ending taliban insurgency .
shaun gregory speaks about how afghanistan and pakistan could reach an agreement on taliban insurgency listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 10.06.11 afghan president karzai is in pakistan for talks to end taliban insurgency poverty threatens the river gypsies of bangladesh vietnamese ' unicorns ' in danger podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile internet cyber attack the chinese government denies claims that a hacker in china was able to hack into google accounts .
security concerns the sipri yearbook 2011 highlights growing security concerns linked to natural resources .
listen to the interview © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china flourishing relations beijing and riyadh have become increasingly close in recent years .
politics pressure mounting thai prime minister-elect yingluck shinawatra faces big challenges in office .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bundeswehr recruits sworn in against backdrop of protest -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundeswehr -pipe- 30.07.2010 bundeswehr recruits sworn in against backdrop of protest großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friday 's oath was the first in stuttgart in 11 years police have dispersed one of a dozen anti-military protests in as army recruits take their oath in stuttgart for the first time in 11 years .
around 1,000 police are on the scene to ensure the safety of 650 new soldiers . police in the southwestern german city of stuttgart on friday dispersed a sit-down protest against the ceremonial pledge of allegiance taken by new german army , or bundeswehr , recruits .
just under 50 protesters sat down in front of the st. eberhard cathedral at midday but were not blocking the entrance to the church service for some 300 recruits and their families .
police defended their dispersal of the group , explaining that another location had been designated for the demonstration .
authorities had initially issued permits to 13 anti-military protest groups for friday but later revoked two of these .
about 1,000 police officers were dispatched to ensure the safety of a total of 650 recruits from southern germany . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : around a dozen protest groups were granted permits the need for security at friday 's event was already stressed last sunday morning when 15 demonstrators occupied the cathedral in protest against the mass .
stuttgart 's dean called the police to remove the protestors after telling them that the church was not the place for political action .
the recruits took their oaths at stuttgart 's new palace in what was the first public pledge of allegiance for bundeswehr soldiers in the city in 11 years . author : david levitz -lrb- dpa / kna -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de mother of killed soldier wants to take military to court the mother of a german soldier who died in afghanistan is seeking to sue the defense ministry and the bundeswehr - arguing that better equipment and training could have prevented her son 's death .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- germany mulls getting rid of compulsive military service the german bundestag is debating a proposal to decrease the length of mandatory military service in a bid to save money .
but if defense minister guttenberg has his way , the military draft could be scrapped altogether .
-lrb- 12.06.2010 -rrb- bundeswehr conscription acts as internship for military careers germany has decided to reduce the time of its mandatory military and civilian services .
one expert says the practice continues to exist because it is a primary recruitment tool to find future career soldiers .
-lrb- 18.05.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga - der internationale talk we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
naked lunch , berlin style -pipe- culture column -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de culture -pipe- 30.07.2010 naked lunch , berlin style großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for some berliners , summer means ditching the clothes and strutting around without a care in the world .
there 's nothing wrong with that per se , but for bashful ex-pat brits , it can be a truly miserable experience . i recall one summer a couple of years ago lying in the grass in berlin 's tiergarten park , enjoying the fragrant breeze on my face , the warm smell of fresh summer grass and the playful twitter of birds in the trees .
my meditations were disrupted by a male voice asking , " have you got a light ? " i awoke from my daydream and looked up to see a rather hefty middle-aged man sporting at least five bellies standing above me holding a cigarette .
nothing unusual in this you might think - except he was stark naked .
i coughed and spluttered for a moment , rather bashfully rummaged through my bag and held out a lighter in his vague direction while suddenly becoming most interested in intently studying the daisy to my left . after lighting his cigarette , this colossal lump of nakedness then saw fit to stand there for a further 10 minutes discussing the weather .
given that it is rather rude not to make eye contact with someone with whom you are engaged in conversation , i did rather feel obliged to cast the occasional furtive glance in his direction .
however , given that i was lying in the grass and he was standing above me , all i ever seemed to make eye contact with was his looming collection of dangly bits and pieces .
most disturbing . this bold example of nakedness is known as fkk - freikoerperkultur , or naked body culture - and your average german does n't have a problem with it .
even if they themselves do n't strut around in their birthday suit all summer , they seldom seem to notice , much less comment on , other people 's nakedness .
at this time of year , when the temperature has risen at least four million degrees , most berliners are launching themselves into the nearest body of water .
and a good number do so without a stitch on . visit one of berlin 's many lakes -lrb- or indeed some parks -rrb- and thrown into the mix of bathers wearing sensible swimwear , you 'll also see mountains of naked flesh .
some lakes and beaches have designated nudist areas while many others are mixed .
of course this open attitude to nudity in germany is a very healthy one ; small children can splash about in the lake with no clothes on without their parents fearing that a paedophile will jump out from behind the nearest bush while granny and grandpa can enjoy an early evening dip au naturelle quite content with each others ' sagging bodies . bildunterschrift : germans in touch with nature in the 1970s ... brits should enter at their own risk the first fkk club was founded in essen in 1898 with the first nudist beach -lrb- on sylt -rrb- welcoming naked bathers in 1920 .
while attitudes to fkk became increasingly conservative in west germany throughout the 70s and 80s , their east german counterparts still revelled in the feeling of freedom that comes with prancing around in the sun with all their bits and pieces jiggling about .
it has absolutely nothing to do with sex and more to do with man in touch with nature ... or such other primitive nonsense . of course , as a brit , while i find the concept of fkk harmless , in practice it is highly embarrassing .
we have no culture of public displays of nudity in the uk unless you can class the occasional streaker at a cricket match in the 1970s as a healthy display of fkk .
on the contrary , nudity is something to be sniggered at by the prudish brits .
after all , we grew up with benny hill and the carry on films ; types of comedy which taught us that big wobbly breasts were hilarious and the word " knickers " among the funniest in the language . a friend of mine once admonished me for hiding behind a newspaper when some naked swimmers walked past with the rather flimsy justification that " the ducks are naked and that does n't embarrass you . "
no dear , but then again , when was the last time you saw a duck waddling down the street in a three-piece suit ? with this summer being hotter than ever , more and more berliners are trekking to the shady tranquility of the city 's lakes with a good proportion content to do so with no clothes on whatsoever .
next time you 're there , take a break from casting a peep at the naked breasts beside you and indulge in some brit spotting instead ; they 're the ones tittering and spluttering behind their sandwiches at the sight of someone 's bottom . neale lytollis still enjoys a swim at the lake ... dressed in sensible trousers , a duffel coat and balaclava . editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last week 's column when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- swiss want to do away with bare sightings one wild beast the swiss do n't want to see swinging down the trail towards them is a naked german hiker .
-lrb- 10.02.2009 -rrb- east germany 's fascination with flesh gets more exposure a new book detailing east germany 's passion for nudity is set to be launched in typically candid style just weeks after a documentary exposed the communist regime 's secret porn industry .
-lrb- 28.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic visit the world 's largest nudist colony in southern france dw-radio : inside europe www-links missed a ' scene in berlin ' ?
read past editions here feedback does public nudity make you blush or are you a carefree fkk fanatic ?
send us an e-mail with your opinion !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live partner npr berlin national public radio provides noncommercial news , talk , and entertainment from the us .
social media become a fan follow deutsche welle on the online interactive platform facebook .
word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view link berlin culture crawl blogger lily philipose bases each post on conversations with berliners on what they 're up to . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
naked lunch , berlin style -pipe- culture column -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de culture -pipe- 30.07.2010 naked lunch , berlin style großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for some berliners , summer means ditching the clothes and strutting around without a care in the world .
there 's nothing wrong with that per se , but for bashful ex-pat brits , it can be a truly miserable experience . i recall one summer a couple of years ago lying in the grass in berlin 's tiergarten park , enjoying the fragrant breeze on my face , the warm smell of fresh summer grass and the playful twitter of birds in the trees .
my meditations were disrupted by a male voice asking , " have you got a light ? " i awoke from my daydream and looked up to see a rather hefty middle-aged man sporting at least five bellies standing above me holding a cigarette .
nothing unusual in this you might think - except he was stark naked .
i coughed and spluttered for a moment , rather bashfully rummaged through my bag and held out a lighter in his vague direction while suddenly becoming most interested in intently studying the daisy to my left . after lighting his cigarette , this colossal lump of nakedness then saw fit to stand there for a further 10 minutes discussing the weather .
given that it is rather rude not to make eye contact with someone with whom you are engaged in conversation , i did rather feel obliged to cast the occasional furtive glance in his direction .
however , given that i was lying in the grass and he was standing above me , all i ever seemed to make eye contact with was his looming collection of dangly bits and pieces .
most disturbing . this bold example of nakedness is known as fkk - freikoerperkultur , or naked body culture - and your average german does n't have a problem with it .
even if they themselves do n't strut around in their birthday suit all summer , they seldom seem to notice , much less comment on , other people 's nakedness .
at this time of year , when the temperature has risen at least four million degrees , most berliners are launching themselves into the nearest body of water .
and a good number do so without a stitch on . visit one of berlin 's many lakes -lrb- or indeed some parks -rrb- and thrown into the mix of bathers wearing sensible swimwear , you 'll also see mountains of naked flesh .
some lakes and beaches have designated nudist areas while many others are mixed .
of course this open attitude to nudity in germany is a very healthy one ; small children can splash about in the lake with no clothes on without their parents fearing that a paedophile will jump out from behind the nearest bush while granny and grandpa can enjoy an early evening dip au naturelle quite content with each others ' sagging bodies . bildunterschrift : germans in touch with nature in the 1970s ... brits should enter at their own risk the first fkk club was founded in essen in 1898 with the first nudist beach -lrb- on sylt -rrb- welcoming naked bathers in 1920 .
while attitudes to fkk became increasingly conservative in west germany throughout the 70s and 80s , their east german counterparts still revelled in the feeling of freedom that comes with prancing around in the sun with all their bits and pieces jiggling about .
it has absolutely nothing to do with sex and more to do with man in touch with nature ... or such other primitive nonsense . of course , as a brit , while i find the concept of fkk harmless , in practice it is highly embarrassing .
we have no culture of public displays of nudity in the uk unless you can class the occasional streaker at a cricket match in the 1970s as a healthy display of fkk .
on the contrary , nudity is something to be sniggered at by the prudish brits .
after all , we grew up with benny hill and the carry on films ; types of comedy which taught us that big wobbly breasts were hilarious and the word " knickers " among the funniest in the language . a friend of mine once admonished me for hiding behind a newspaper when some naked swimmers walked past with the rather flimsy justification that " the ducks are naked and that does n't embarrass you . "
no dear , but then again , when was the last time you saw a duck waddling down the street in a three-piece suit ? with this summer being hotter than ever , more and more berliners are trekking to the shady tranquility of the city 's lakes with a good proportion content to do so with no clothes on whatsoever .
next time you 're there , take a break from casting a peep at the naked breasts beside you and indulge in some brit spotting instead ; they 're the ones tittering and spluttering behind their sandwiches at the sight of someone 's bottom . neale lytollis still enjoys a swim at the lake ... dressed in sensible trousers , a duffel coat and balaclava . editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last week 's column when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- swiss want to do away with bare sightings one wild beast the swiss do n't want to see swinging down the trail towards them is a naked german hiker .
-lrb- 10.02.2009 -rrb- east germany 's fascination with flesh gets more exposure a new book detailing east germany 's passion for nudity is set to be launched in typically candid style just weeks after a documentary exposed the communist regime 's secret porn industry .
-lrb- 28.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic visit the world 's largest nudist colony in southern france dw-radio : inside europe www-links missed a ' scene in berlin ' ?
read past editions here feedback does public nudity make you blush or are you a carefree fkk fanatic ?
send us an e-mail with your opinion !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 11 - jupiter jones are moving on up subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu registers provide no clues to bp lobbying uk officials over libya -pipe- americas -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de trans-atlantic relations -pipe- 30.07.2010 eu registers provide no clues to bp lobbying uk officials over libya großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us senators want to examine possible links between the release of the lockerbie bomber and bp bp 's lobbying of the uk government over a prisoner deal with libya is under investigation by the us senate .
but while the oil giant had to disclose its lobbying efforts in the us , it did n't have to in the eu or the uk . a hearing on the issue was originally scheduled for july 29 , but that has been postponed .
one of the senators involved , robert menendez , said bp and british officials had stonewalled the investigation and some key witnesses had refused to appear .
the us senate foreign relations committee , which wants to find out whether bp 's lobbying british officials played a role in the early release of convicted lockerbie bomber abdelbaset al-megrahi last year , is unlikely to garner any useful information coming from the european union 's official lobbying register .
while bp 's lobbying practices in the us are logged into a mandatory register that is publicly available and updated regularly , no comparable database exists in the eu or in britain .
two years ago , the eu launched a voluntary lobbying register that companies and interest groups can join if they want to .
so far however , most lobbyists have chosen not be logged into the public register .
low registration rate , outdated information " we did a survey about a month ago when the register had been in place for two years and our conclusion is that less than half of all the lobbying organisations that are estimated to be active in brussels are on the register , " erik wesselius of the alliance for lobbying transparency and ethics regulation -lrb- alter-eu -rrb- , a coalition of some 160 organisations campaigning for effective lobbying rules in europe , told deutsche welle .
" so that 's less than 50 percent after two years , that 's not a particularly good performance . "
what 's more , even the limited information that is available in the brussels register is not particularly helpful . " the information is much less precise than in the us register and in many cases the information in the eu register is quite outdated , " said wesselius .
bp is one of the firms that actually chose to join the brussels lobbying register .
but the company 's file in the eu database serves as a good example of the limited usefulness of the information available there .
according to the register , the bp file was last updated in november 2009 .
the last financial information given dates back to 2008 when , according to the public file , bp spent between 400,000 and 450,000 euros -lrb- $ 522,000 - $ 588,000 -rrb- lobbying eu institutions .
details about which institutions were lobbied are not available .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bp 's new american ceo has to deal with the senate investigation the expenditure estimate given by bp is very low , said wesselius , considering that bp spent $ 15 million last year on lobbying the us federal government .
" we have been doubting whether this is the right figure , " he added .
no registry required in britain , where bp is based , there is no publicly available lobbying register at all . however , after a slew of recent lobbying scandals , there is some momentum toward lobbying transparency in the uk .
the country 's three main lobbying umbrella organisations have created the so-called uk public affairs council which is supposed to maintain a register .
but currently the ukpac 's common register on the organization 's website is not publicly accessible .
in a move that would even go beyond attempts of self-regulation of the industry , the new british government has vowed to establish a mandatory register .
but so far no timetable has been set . in the eu , there are also efforts to create a more reliable lobbying register .
currently , no one even knows how many lobbyists are active in brussels .
" nobody can say for sure , " said wesselius .
" we have an estimate of 15,000 to 20,000 , but it 's very hard to say . "
us register a model for the eu as a model for an improved eu lobbying register wesselius points to the us .
there , lobbyists are not only required to register , but they must also update their information on a quarterly basis .
and all of this information is publicly available .
" we can tell you how much money overall is being spent and we can tell you what issues and what bills are being lobbied on by a company like bp , " dave levinthal , communications director at the center for responsive politics which maintains the database opensecrets.org , told deutsche welle .
bildunterschrift : bp has been hammered for its handling of the oil spill in the gulf for months " for example if you look at 2009 there was a piece of legislation in the us senate called the oil spill prevention act of 2009 , " said levinthal .
" bp lobbied on that bill .
it also lobbied on the clean water restoration act , senate bill 787 . "
in the eu or the uk , such detailed information on bp 's or any other company 's lobbying efforts is simply not available .
compared to the us , lobbyists in europe face very little regulation .
" so far they have been able to do to their thing quite unencumbered , " said wesselius .
despite efforts to improve the eu 's lobbying register , chances for a quick success are slim , noted wesselius .
" basically what we need in the eu is a big scandal , " he says , adding that in the us lobbying laws were always tightened after huge public scandals .
for the us senators investigating the lobbying of the british government by bp in the lockerbie case that means they will have to get their information elsewhere .
in brussels and britain there is simply no public record of bp 's dealings with uk officials . author : michael knigge editor : rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de us senate to probe possible links between bp and release of the lockerbie bomber already under fire for the oil spill , bp has admitted lobbying the uk government over a controversial prisoner release deal with libya .
while the us senate is investigating , experts are n't surprised .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- bp boss tony hayward to step down as firm seeks to repair image bp has announced that its embattled chief executive tony hayward is leaving .
hayward , savaged for his handling of the gulf of mexico oil leak , is resigning as the british-based company strives to rebuild its us image .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- www-links bp 's lobbying profile at opensecrets.org bp 's lobbying profile at the european commission uk public affairs council 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series cornelius in liberia changes lives by talking about sex on the radio .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes climate change check out deutsche welle 's multimedia coverage of people and projects combating climate change .
the global ideas page learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu registers provide no clues to bp lobbying uk officials over libya -pipe- americas -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de trans-atlantic relations -pipe- 30.07.2010 eu registers provide no clues to bp lobbying uk officials over libya großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us senators want to examine possible links between the release of the lockerbie bomber and bp bp 's lobbying of the uk government over a prisoner deal with libya is under investigation by the us senate .
but while the oil giant had to disclose its lobbying efforts in the us , it did n't have to in the eu or the uk . a hearing on the issue was originally scheduled for july 29 , but that has been postponed .
one of the senators involved , robert menendez , said bp and british officials had stonewalled the investigation and some key witnesses had refused to appear .
the us senate foreign relations committee , which wants to find out whether bp 's lobbying british officials played a role in the early release of convicted lockerbie bomber abdelbaset al-megrahi last year , is unlikely to garner any useful information coming from the european union 's official lobbying register .
while bp 's lobbying practices in the us are logged into a mandatory register that is publicly available and updated regularly , no comparable database exists in the eu or in britain .
two years ago , the eu launched a voluntary lobbying register that companies and interest groups can join if they want to .
so far however , most lobbyists have chosen not be logged into the public register .
low registration rate , outdated information " we did a survey about a month ago when the register had been in place for two years and our conclusion is that less than half of all the lobbying organisations that are estimated to be active in brussels are on the register , " erik wesselius of the alliance for lobbying transparency and ethics regulation -lrb- alter-eu -rrb- , a coalition of some 160 organisations campaigning for effective lobbying rules in europe , told deutsche welle .
" so that 's less than 50 percent after two years , that 's not a particularly good performance . "
what 's more , even the limited information that is available in the brussels register is not particularly helpful . " the information is much less precise than in the us register and in many cases the information in the eu register is quite outdated , " said wesselius .
bp is one of the firms that actually chose to join the brussels lobbying register .
but the company 's file in the eu database serves as a good example of the limited usefulness of the information available there .
according to the register , the bp file was last updated in november 2009 .
the last financial information given dates back to 2008 when , according to the public file , bp spent between 400,000 and 450,000 euros -lrb- $ 522,000 - $ 588,000 -rrb- lobbying eu institutions .
details about which institutions were lobbied are not available .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bp 's new american ceo has to deal with the senate investigation the expenditure estimate given by bp is very low , said wesselius , considering that bp spent $ 15 million last year on lobbying the us federal government .
" we have been doubting whether this is the right figure , " he added .
no registry required in britain , where bp is based , there is no publicly available lobbying register at all . however , after a slew of recent lobbying scandals , there is some momentum toward lobbying transparency in the uk .
the country 's three main lobbying umbrella organisations have created the so-called uk public affairs council which is supposed to maintain a register .
but currently the ukpac 's common register on the organization 's website is not publicly accessible .
in a move that would even go beyond attempts of self-regulation of the industry , the new british government has vowed to establish a mandatory register .
but so far no timetable has been set . in the eu , there are also efforts to create a more reliable lobbying register .
currently , no one even knows how many lobbyists are active in brussels .
" nobody can say for sure , " said wesselius .
" we have an estimate of 15,000 to 20,000 , but it 's very hard to say . "
us register a model for the eu as a model for an improved eu lobbying register wesselius points to the us .
there , lobbyists are not only required to register , but they must also update their information on a quarterly basis .
and all of this information is publicly available .
" we can tell you how much money overall is being spent and we can tell you what issues and what bills are being lobbied on by a company like bp , " dave levinthal , communications director at the center for responsive politics which maintains the database opensecrets.org , told deutsche welle .
bildunterschrift : bp has been hammered for its handling of the oil spill in the gulf for months " for example if you look at 2009 there was a piece of legislation in the us senate called the oil spill prevention act of 2009 , " said levinthal .
" bp lobbied on that bill .
it also lobbied on the clean water restoration act , senate bill 787 . "
in the eu or the uk , such detailed information on bp 's or any other company 's lobbying efforts is simply not available .
compared to the us , lobbyists in europe face very little regulation .
" so far they have been able to do to their thing quite unencumbered , " said wesselius .
despite efforts to improve the eu 's lobbying register , chances for a quick success are slim , noted wesselius .
" basically what we need in the eu is a big scandal , " he says , adding that in the us lobbying laws were always tightened after huge public scandals .
for the us senators investigating the lobbying of the british government by bp in the lockerbie case that means they will have to get their information elsewhere .
in brussels and britain there is simply no public record of bp 's dealings with uk officials . author : michael knigge editor : rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de us senate to probe possible links between bp and release of the lockerbie bomber already under fire for the oil spill , bp has admitted lobbying the uk government over a controversial prisoner release deal with libya .
while the us senate is investigating , experts are n't surprised .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- bp boss tony hayward to step down as firm seeks to repair image bp has announced that its embattled chief executive tony hayward is leaving .
hayward , savaged for his handling of the gulf of mexico oil leak , is resigning as the british-based company strives to rebuild its us image .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- www-links bp 's lobbying profile at opensecrets.org bp 's lobbying profile at the european commission uk public affairs council 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
arab world speedy sentence on monday , tunisia 's ex-president ben ali and his wife were sentenced in absentia to jail terms in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
human rights two bulgarian nurses reflect on their eight years spent falsely incarcerated in libyan jails .
watch the video podcast series lotta from finland combines her passions for gymnastics and volunteering .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with reporters we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- feedback are a turkish-german who has moved to turkey ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- feedback are a turkish-german who has moved to turkey ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour leipzig 1 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- feedback are a turkish-german who has moved to turkey ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
9/11 anniversary your memories how did 9/11 change your thoughts or worldview ?
send a text or photos to dw .
dw-tv europe live european journal - the magazine from brussels we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : the latest from germany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- feedback are a turkish-german who has moved to turkey ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum consumer electronics at ifa berlin , german virtual synagogues and ars electronica 2010 in linz listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- feedback are a turkish-german who has moved to turkey ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- feedback are a turkish-german who has moved to turkey ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- feedback are a turkish-german who has moved to turkey ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think the us should do in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 reader response feedback our readers and asia compact listeners love to send in their views .
here 's a selection .
global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media ceasefire thailand and cambodia have agreed on a new ceasefire deal after the earlier one failed .
robert carmichael , dw correspndent in phnom penh , reports on the latest developments listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 29.04.11 thailand and cambodia agree on a new ceasefire deal the new chinese census shows the communist country is ageing non-formal education in bhutan is on the rise podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile militancy there have been three militant attacks on the pakistan navy in karachi in less than a week .
former law minister of pakistan , iqbal haider , admits that his country 's security establishment is double-minded about the taliban prison break about 475 prisoners , mostly taliban fighters , managed to break out of a jail in kandahar on monday .
thomas ruttig of the afghanistan analysis network believes that the afghan government is corrupt and incompetent to run its affairs april asia quiz quiz of the month justice hate crime twelve men suspected of attacking members of the ahmadiyah community face trial in indonesia .
newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think the us should do in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 interview suu kyi calls for more support from europe the burmese civil rights activist talks to dw in an exclusive interview .
december asia quiz quiz of the month exhibition celebrating indian waste collectors a young german photographer has focused on waste and waste collectors in india .
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 17.12.10 obama 's afpak strategy review japan revises security policy wikileaks reveals kashmir torture reports podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online asia compact join us on facebook !
fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think the us should do in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 author arundhati roy could face sedition charges over kashmir comments .
prashant bhushan , a senior lawyer at the indian supreme court , gives his views on the issue october asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 27.10.10 un secretary-general in cambodia new war of words between india and china could arundhati roy face sedition charges ?
podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
asia compact join us on facebook !
islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think the us should do in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 reader response feedback on kashmir , korea and other issues our readers and asia compact listeners are passionate about sending in their views .
september asia quiz quiz of the month pakistan the catastrophe click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 23.09.10 commonwealth games could turn into a major embarrassment for delhi new book by bob woodward exposes deep divisions in washington over afghanistan cologne exhibition takes a new look at china podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think the us should do in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media japanese economy japan 's earthquake and tsunami are likely to affect the japanese economy in the coming weeks .
the world bank 's representative in washington , vikram nehru , believes it all depends on how well the japanese cope with the nculear issue libya air strikes china 's state media condemned military strikes on libya , saying they are a western grab for power .
gui hao , china expert at deutsche welle 's asia department , talks about the implications of the enhanced rhetoric march asia quiz quiz of the month digital stories deutsche welle 's partner website from pakistan listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 24.03.11 tibet exile government accepts dalai lama 's retirement gurkhas in britain fight for their rights dark times ahead for indian ' god-men ' podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- 9798 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media fukushima human error a report for the iaea points to human error as the cause of japan 's worst nuclear disaster .
politics police in bangladesh have detained many activists following a strike called by the opposition .
sultana kamal speaks about the political issue behind the arrests .
biodiversity saving the rare saola wwf says the establishment of a nature reserve in vietnam has brought new survival hopes for saolas .
employment indecent concentration of wealth is making life more difficult for common people .
thetis mangahas speaks on the employment situation in asia listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 10.06.11 hundreds arrested in bangladesh after strike against electoral change " red wedding " : a gruesome secret of the khmer rouge in cambodia money for garbage at mount everest podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile security concerns the sipri yearbook 2011 highlights growing security concerns linked to natural resources .
listen to the interview © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china flourishing relations beijing and riyadh have become increasingly close in recent years .
politics pressure mounting thai prime minister-elect yingluck shinawatra faces big challenges in office .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business review we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us group pressures deutsche bank to maintain rundown properties -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de housing -pipe- 30.07.2010 us group pressures deutsche bank to maintain rundown properties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : homes values in the sherman park area of milwaukee has fallen substantially the financial crisis has left thousands of homes vacant in the us city of milwaukee .
residents there are placing part of the blame for the mess at deutsche bank 's door . the people of milwaukee are proud of their city .
they enjoy its proximity to lake michigan , an abundance of parks and high-class restaurants .
but the financial crisis has hit the wisconsin city hard .
thousands of houses have been foreclosed , their owners evicted because they could no longer repay their loans . for the people in the sherman park neighborhood , the crisis is a nightmare that 's turned the area around their homes into a wasteland .
a shop named " milk and honey " is located on 51st street , but the fact is there has n't been anything sweet or creamy about this part of the city since the beginning of the financial crisis . " i feel like i need to leave , " said dolly turnbull , who has lived in sherman park for 31 years .
" but i ca n't because that 's exactly what 's going to make it fall apart . " widespread disrepair bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : giaimo said deutsche bank is partly responsible for the state of homes in sherman park drug dealers have moved into some of the rundown properties .
many streets have fallen into disrepair , and half the homes are empty .
one of the houses covered in graffiti .
" get money , " it says on the wall .
the paper boy still delivers free newspapers to the house , but with no one there to collect them they pile up on the porch .
this property was once worth $ 100,000 -lrb- 76,550 euros -rrb- .
with almost the whole street in bad shape , the price is down to $ 10,000 . until three months ago , it did n't look as if anything were about to change .
but that 's when the people of milwaukee shifted their gaze from their own streets to far-way germany .
they accused germany 's biggest bank , deutsche bank , of being responsible for a large part of the mess .
it 's ironic , they said , given that it was mostly german immigrants who settled in milwaukee back in the 1840s . susan giaimo , a milwaukee professor in political science , travelled to frankfurt in may .
she wanted to stir things up on deutsche bank 's home turf . " deutsche bank is destroying milwaukee homes , " she said .
" germany built milwaukee and now a german bank is destroying milwaukee homes . " deutsche bank 's role in housing crisis bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of homes have been foreclosed on giaimo works with the community organization named common ground of wisconsin .
deutsche bank is much more involved in the housing crisis than it likes to admit , according to the group .
the company bought up large packages of mortgages and resold them for a profit , and it serves as trustee for thousands of milwaukee homes - many of which have been foreclosed on or are considered at-risk .
according to deutsche bank , the company is trustee of 1 million houses across the united states .
that makes deutsche bank accountable for what is happening with the houses , according to common ground . " the banks made money on these subprime mortgages and we want them to take responsibility , " giaimo said . but deutsche bank said there is not much it can do to improve the situation in the perplexing us mortgage market .
the market is made up investors that buy large packages of mortgages .
then there are trustees that administer these packages .
and there are servicers that collect the payments from the house owners and have to take care of foreclosed homes . as trustee , deutsche bank has said it is not directly involved in what happens to the properties .
a spokesperson told deutsche welle it would be illegal for the bank to interfere too much with the operations of other companies involved in the properties ' management .
deutsche bank 's role is , therefore , an administrative one , the spokesman added . but that 's difficult to explain to people receiving foreclosure orders bearing the deutsche bank logo .
it 's the german company that legally owns the loans . trash , grass and broken windows bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : deutsche bank said it would talk to mortgage services about the problem in wisconsin at a meeting in july , the city of milwaukee tried to sort things out .
all major banks came to the city hall - including deutsche bank . listing thousands of violations , city officials said the servicers are doing a lousy job maintaining the properties they are meant to be taking care of .
trash is littered through the high grass and broken windows abound .
the properties with the highest number of violations were managed in deutsche bank trusts .
" we 're not asking too much of the financial institutions , " alderman michael murphy said .
" the united states government helped bailout banks and now local government is bailing them out in maintaining their properties .
this is not acceptable . " deutsche bank has promised to talk to the servicers and ask them to improve the job they are doing .
the bank also agreed to discuss plans to invest in milwaukee . the city has given deutsche bank and its competitors six weeks to lift its game .
otherwise it will consider legal action . author : benjamin hammer editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de top german banker found guilty of market manipulation the former chief of german bank ikb has been found guilty of market manipulation and given a 10-month suspended sentence .
he was also given a hefty fine for misstating investment risks .
-lrb- 14.07.2010 -rrb- us probe looks into international banks and ratings agencies , reports say new york 's attorney general has begun investigating eight banks , including deutsche bank , on their relationships with ratings agencies .
-lrb- 13.05.2010 -rrb- deutsche bank reveals uk bonus tax , posts profits deutsche bank ceo josef ackermann said the bank has set aside 225 million euros -lrb- $ 314 million -rrb- to pay a one-off uk tax on bankers ' bonuses .
he also said he expects industry pay to decline in coming years .
-lrb- 06.02.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic milwaukee homeowners call on deutsche bank to stop urban decay 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1948 : the berlin airlift dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 30.07.2010 nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : each of president goodluck jonathan 's posts draw between 1,000 and 2,000 comments president goodluck jonathan has attracted over 144,000 facebook fans in just a few short weeks , and he writes his own posts every day , in english , drawing thousands of comments . last week , facebook announced that it had passed 500 million member mark .
but one of its newer members is nigerian president goodluck jonathan , who is posting up a storm on his facebook page .
over 144,000 people have said that they like his facebook page , where he posts in english about his daily political activities .
president jonathan is more popular on facebook than german chancellor angela merkel , who only has around 42,000 fans , but still significantly trails the world ’ s most popular online politician , barack obama , who has over 11.5 million fans .
online nigerians seem to be very excited at their president ’ s adoption of the popular social networking site as he seems to be riding the wave of increasing popularity for the site in nigeria .
" this is a real change , but a good change , " said a woman in an internet café in sokoto in northwestern nigeria .
" it allows all of nigeria the ability to give their opinions directly to the politicians .
when there are problems , then they can set them straight .
before the president there were already a few other politicians on facebook .
they give their opinions on various topics , just like we do , without being afraid of being arrested .
this reduces the gulf between the politicians and the people . "
already , around one million nigerians have signed up for facebook .
with that kind of audience , the social networking site has become very attractive to many politicians .
they see it as a way to get into discussions with their fellow countrymen , and as a way to air their thoughts and hopefully , to build support .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president jonathan has over 144,000 fans on facebook facebook has influenced political decisions yakuba musa , who works on the nigerian president 's public relations team , describes the first facebook day as a huge success .
and though he helped initiate that idea , he says he ’ s not the one writing the president ’ s posts .
" the president does it himself , " he told deutsche welle .
" and if you look at it , it has been influencing some of the decisions that he has been taking , for example , the nigerian football association .
the president reversed his decision -lrb- to ban the team from international play over their poor world cup performance -rrb- and subsequently , on the website he said that he based his decision on some comments that he got from nigerians . "
jonathan does n't only write about soccer .
he discusses other things that have been troubling his people for a long time : the inconsistent and insufficient electricity production , say , or environmental problems in the niger delta .
and it seems the nigerians have taken to the idea of a conversation with their head of state .
each entry by the president quickly attracts between 1,500 and 2,000 comments .
at the same internet cafe in sokoto , abdurrahman mohammed is also excited about the new opportunities the web has brought .
" i opened a facebook page because i saw how many other people were getting on the social network , " he said .
" i can use facebook to let people know what i think .
and i hope i can do my bit to make so many things in my country and the world better .
i think what our president has done is great .
it 's good for all nigerians . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : of nigeria 's 11 million internet users , only around one million of them are on facebook muslim leaders also seek new followers on facebook and it is n't just politicians and regular citizens in nigeria who have discovered the internet and social networks .
muslim imams are also trying to gain new followers by using facebook .
usman aliyu is one of them .
he uses facebook as a platform to discuss religious and social issues .
" i opened a facebook page because i want to know how people act within the social network , " he said .
" we ’ ve seen that many young people are very active on facebook .
so we use that as a way to show how religious concepts and the correct way of acting applies to their daily lives , " he explained .
lawal aliyu is exactly the kind of person the imam is targeting , but he does n't have time for what he sees as small ideas .
to him facebook is more about getting out into the world .
" facebook is a website where people can give their opinions or discuss problems , " he said .
" in our country , people often do n't always have courage to say what they think in public .
but on facebook they can write what they want .
the whole world can see it , react to it and make suggestions . "
author : mohammad awal -lrb- cf -rrb- editor : ranjitha balasubramanyam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german officials charge facebook with privacy violations german data protection officials go after facebook for storing personal data of non-users .
meanwhile , another official advocates creating a smartphone app for users to track personal information gathered about them .
-lrb- 08.07.2010 -rrb- nigerian president 's death could trigger sectarian violence nigerian president umaru yar 'adua has died following a long illness that had sparked a leadership crisis in the country .
analysts expect his succession to be the most hotly contested since nigeria 's return to democracy .
-lrb- 06.05.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic nigerian president interacts with citizens on facebook 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 30.07.2010 nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : each of president goodluck jonathan 's posts draw between 1,000 and 2,000 comments president goodluck jonathan has attracted over 144,000 facebook fans in just a few short weeks , and he writes his own posts every day , in english , drawing thousands of comments . last week , facebook announced that it had passed 500 million member mark .
but one of its newer members is nigerian president goodluck jonathan , who is posting up a storm on his facebook page .
over 144,000 people have said that they like his facebook page , where he posts in english about his daily political activities .
president jonathan is more popular on facebook than german chancellor angela merkel , who only has around 42,000 fans , but still significantly trails the world ’ s most popular online politician , barack obama , who has over 11.5 million fans .
online nigerians seem to be very excited at their president ’ s adoption of the popular social networking site as he seems to be riding the wave of increasing popularity for the site in nigeria .
" this is a real change , but a good change , " said a woman in an internet café in sokoto in northwestern nigeria .
" it allows all of nigeria the ability to give their opinions directly to the politicians .
when there are problems , then they can set them straight .
before the president there were already a few other politicians on facebook .
they give their opinions on various topics , just like we do , without being afraid of being arrested .
this reduces the gulf between the politicians and the people . "
already , around one million nigerians have signed up for facebook .
with that kind of audience , the social networking site has become very attractive to many politicians .
they see it as a way to get into discussions with their fellow countrymen , and as a way to air their thoughts and hopefully , to build support .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president jonathan has over 144,000 fans on facebook facebook has influenced political decisions yakuba musa , who works on the nigerian president 's public relations team , describes the first facebook day as a huge success .
and though he helped initiate that idea , he says he ’ s not the one writing the president ’ s posts .
" the president does it himself , " he told deutsche welle .
" and if you look at it , it has been influencing some of the decisions that he has been taking , for example , the nigerian football association .
the president reversed his decision -lrb- to ban the team from international play over their poor world cup performance -rrb- and subsequently , on the website he said that he based his decision on some comments that he got from nigerians . "
jonathan does n't only write about soccer .
he discusses other things that have been troubling his people for a long time : the inconsistent and insufficient electricity production , say , or environmental problems in the niger delta .
and it seems the nigerians have taken to the idea of a conversation with their head of state .
each entry by the president quickly attracts between 1,500 and 2,000 comments .
at the same internet cafe in sokoto , abdurrahman mohammed is also excited about the new opportunities the web has brought .
" i opened a facebook page because i saw how many other people were getting on the social network , " he said .
" i can use facebook to let people know what i think .
and i hope i can do my bit to make so many things in my country and the world better .
i think what our president has done is great .
it 's good for all nigerians . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : of nigeria 's 11 million internet users , only around one million of them are on facebook muslim leaders also seek new followers on facebook and it is n't just politicians and regular citizens in nigeria who have discovered the internet and social networks .
muslim imams are also trying to gain new followers by using facebook .
usman aliyu is one of them .
he uses facebook as a platform to discuss religious and social issues .
" i opened a facebook page because i want to know how people act within the social network , " he said .
" we ’ ve seen that many young people are very active on facebook .
so we use that as a way to show how religious concepts and the correct way of acting applies to their daily lives , " he explained .
lawal aliyu is exactly the kind of person the imam is targeting , but he does n't have time for what he sees as small ideas .
to him facebook is more about getting out into the world .
" facebook is a website where people can give their opinions or discuss problems , " he said .
" in our country , people often do n't always have courage to say what they think in public .
but on facebook they can write what they want .
the whole world can see it , react to it and make suggestions . "
author : mohammad awal -lrb- cf -rrb- editor : ranjitha balasubramanyam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german officials charge facebook with privacy violations german data protection officials go after facebook for storing personal data of non-users .
meanwhile , another official advocates creating a smartphone app for users to track personal information gathered about them .
-lrb- 08.07.2010 -rrb- nigerian president 's death could trigger sectarian violence nigerian president umaru yar 'adua has died following a long illness that had sparked a leadership crisis in the country .
analysts expect his succession to be the most hotly contested since nigeria 's return to democracy .
-lrb- 06.05.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic nigerian president interacts with citizens on facebook feedback do you think politicians should be on facebook ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 30.07.2010 nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : each of president goodluck jonathan 's posts draw between 1,000 and 2,000 comments president goodluck jonathan has attracted over 144,000 facebook fans in just a few short weeks , and he writes his own posts every day , in english , drawing thousands of comments . last week , facebook announced that it had passed 500 million member mark .
but one of its newer members is nigerian president goodluck jonathan , who is posting up a storm on his facebook page .
over 144,000 people have said that they like his facebook page , where he posts in english about his daily political activities .
president jonathan is more popular on facebook than german chancellor angela merkel , who only has around 42,000 fans , but still significantly trails the world ’ s most popular online politician , barack obama , who has over 11.5 million fans .
online nigerians seem to be very excited at their president ’ s adoption of the popular social networking site as he seems to be riding the wave of increasing popularity for the site in nigeria .
" this is a real change , but a good change , " said a woman in an internet café in sokoto in northwestern nigeria .
" it allows all of nigeria the ability to give their opinions directly to the politicians .
when there are problems , then they can set them straight .
before the president there were already a few other politicians on facebook .
they give their opinions on various topics , just like we do , without being afraid of being arrested .
this reduces the gulf between the politicians and the people . "
already , around one million nigerians have signed up for facebook .
with that kind of audience , the social networking site has become very attractive to many politicians .
they see it as a way to get into discussions with their fellow countrymen , and as a way to air their thoughts and hopefully , to build support .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president jonathan has over 144,000 fans on facebook facebook has influenced political decisions yakuba musa , who works on the nigerian president 's public relations team , describes the first facebook day as a huge success .
and though he helped initiate that idea , he says he ’ s not the one writing the president ’ s posts .
" the president does it himself , " he told deutsche welle .
" and if you look at it , it has been influencing some of the decisions that he has been taking , for example , the nigerian football association .
the president reversed his decision -lrb- to ban the team from international play over their poor world cup performance -rrb- and subsequently , on the website he said that he based his decision on some comments that he got from nigerians . "
jonathan does n't only write about soccer .
he discusses other things that have been troubling his people for a long time : the inconsistent and insufficient electricity production , say , or environmental problems in the niger delta .
and it seems the nigerians have taken to the idea of a conversation with their head of state .
each entry by the president quickly attracts between 1,500 and 2,000 comments .
at the same internet cafe in sokoto , abdurrahman mohammed is also excited about the new opportunities the web has brought .
" i opened a facebook page because i saw how many other people were getting on the social network , " he said .
" i can use facebook to let people know what i think .
and i hope i can do my bit to make so many things in my country and the world better .
i think what our president has done is great .
it 's good for all nigerians . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : of nigeria 's 11 million internet users , only around one million of them are on facebook muslim leaders also seek new followers on facebook and it is n't just politicians and regular citizens in nigeria who have discovered the internet and social networks .
muslim imams are also trying to gain new followers by using facebook .
usman aliyu is one of them .
he uses facebook as a platform to discuss religious and social issues .
" i opened a facebook page because i want to know how people act within the social network , " he said .
" we ’ ve seen that many young people are very active on facebook .
so we use that as a way to show how religious concepts and the correct way of acting applies to their daily lives , " he explained .
lawal aliyu is exactly the kind of person the imam is targeting , but he does n't have time for what he sees as small ideas .
to him facebook is more about getting out into the world .
" facebook is a website where people can give their opinions or discuss problems , " he said .
" in our country , people often do n't always have courage to say what they think in public .
but on facebook they can write what they want .
the whole world can see it , react to it and make suggestions . "
author : mohammad awal -lrb- cf -rrb- editor : ranjitha balasubramanyam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german officials charge facebook with privacy violations german data protection officials go after facebook for storing personal data of non-users .
meanwhile , another official advocates creating a smartphone app for users to track personal information gathered about them .
-lrb- 08.07.2010 -rrb- nigerian president 's death could trigger sectarian violence nigerian president umaru yar 'adua has died following a long illness that had sparked a leadership crisis in the country .
analysts expect his succession to be the most hotly contested since nigeria 's return to democracy .
-lrb- 06.05.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic nigerian president interacts with citizens on facebook feedback do you think politicians should be on facebook ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards voting is underway at the bobs - deutsche welle 's annual blog contest .
cast your ballot social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
postcard from europe : love parade - the end of an era -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 30.07.2010 postcard from europe : love parade - the end of an era großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's love parade had its roots in berlin the duisburg tragedy is just another black mark against techno ; a genre which was once king in germany but which is now rapidly falling from favor .
gavin blackburn sent us this postcard on the end of an era . ask any music buff who was around in germany in 1989 , and more often than not they 'll tell you that had it not been for the fall of the berlin wall , techno as we know it today would never have loomed so large on the german musical radar .
towards the end of the 80s , techno , with its repetitive computer beats and clinical , robotic attitude was a niche genre enjoyed by only a handful of forward thinking kids in west berlin .
but then the wall came down and with it a massive influx of teenagers from the communist east .
for years they 'd been forced to stagnate on a diet of state-controlled , sanitised pop and now they were filled with a party spirit and eager to dance to something new .
and they found it in techno , a genre which could n't have been more different from the communist propaganda they 'd grown up with ; it was cold , electronic , it had no difficult english lyrics to mangle , it was the sci-fi sound of the approaching 90s .
of course the introduction of the new designer drug ecstasy did much to add to the euphoria of a united germany , a massive political event which helped consolidate techno 's status as germany 's primary musical export .
despite the genre having its roots in detroit and chicago , berlin quickly became techno 's honorary european hq and throughout the 90s ; it seemed like everyone here was a fan .
techno superclubs like tresor , e-werk and ostgut began popping up all over the city , often in cavernous , abandoned old power stations .
time to beat it ?
but it 's not 1989 any more and while the beat of techno still rings out here , its days could well be numbered .
many of the djs who established the scene in the first place are nudging retirement age and some have already dropped off the radar .
that original generation of clubbers are now respectable teachers and architects with children of their own .
the love parade , once a fixture of berlin 's cultural scene got shunted to other cities .
and for the first time in years , berlin techno havens like one called berghain have begun slipping out of the top ten lists of world 's best clubs ; something which 10 years ago would have seemed unimaginable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw correspondent neale lytollis says the techno era is drawing to a close while techno clubs and parties do still exist here the visitor profile is very different .
clubber turned journo tobias rapp describes them as the easyjet set ; up for it europeans who come to berlin on cheap flights to get wrecked for a weekend .
so far-reaching is berghain 's legendary status that the line of clubbers is made up more or less entirely of kids from spain , italy , scandinavia and eastern europe , while berliners take refuge in less celebrated venues and dance to anything other than techno .
the tragedy at duisburg 's love parade last week which saw more than 20 people lose their lives , will no doubt add another nail to the rapidly-closing lid of techno 's coffin .
but in berlin at least , where change is arguably the most integral aspect of the city 's character , the party spirit will live on ; it 's just the party wo n't be in berghain and techno wo n't be the soundtrack .
author : gavin blackburn editor : neil king send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- love parade death toll climbs to 21 the death toll from the crush at last weekend 's love parade festival climbed to 21 on wednesday .
accusations over who is to blame are focusing on the organizers of the event .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- the businessman behind the ill-fated love parade the organizer of the ill-fated love parade , german fitness czar rainer schaller , has a reputation for swimming against the current and making risks pay off .
now the entrepreneur has become the obejct of public scrutiny .
-lrb- 26.07.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live hin & weg - das reisemagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art the czech state rushes artwork out of a german museum in light of a potential legal issue .
watch the video poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video reader response austerity avoidance as anti-austerity riots continue in debt-stricken greece , readers consider the country 's options .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- feedback how far can dortmund go in the europa league this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with pianist hélène grimaud – part 1 listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 30.07.2010 nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : each of president goodluck jonathan 's posts draw between 1,000 and 2,000 comments president goodluck jonathan has attracted over 144,000 facebook fans in just a few short weeks , and he writes his own posts every day , in english , drawing thousands of comments . last week , facebook announced that it had passed 500 million member mark .
but one of its newer members is nigerian president goodluck jonathan , who is posting up a storm on his facebook page .
over 144,000 people have said that they like his facebook page , where he posts in english about his daily political activities .
president jonathan is more popular on facebook than german chancellor angela merkel , who only has around 42,000 fans , but still significantly trails the world ’ s most popular online politician , barack obama , who has over 11.5 million fans .
online nigerians seem to be very excited at their president ’ s adoption of the popular social networking site as he seems to be riding the wave of increasing popularity for the site in nigeria .
" this is a real change , but a good change , " said a woman in an internet café in sokoto in northwestern nigeria .
" it allows all of nigeria the ability to give their opinions directly to the politicians .
when there are problems , then they can set them straight .
before the president there were already a few other politicians on facebook .
they give their opinions on various topics , just like we do , without being afraid of being arrested .
this reduces the gulf between the politicians and the people . "
already , around one million nigerians have signed up for facebook .
with that kind of audience , the social networking site has become very attractive to many politicians .
they see it as a way to get into discussions with their fellow countrymen , and as a way to air their thoughts and hopefully , to build support .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president jonathan has over 144,000 fans on facebook facebook has influenced political decisions yakuba musa , who works on the nigerian president 's public relations team , describes the first facebook day as a huge success .
and though he helped initiate that idea , he says he ’ s not the one writing the president ’ s posts .
" the president does it himself , " he told deutsche welle .
" and if you look at it , it has been influencing some of the decisions that he has been taking , for example , the nigerian football association .
the president reversed his decision -lrb- to ban the team from international play over their poor world cup performance -rrb- and subsequently , on the website he said that he based his decision on some comments that he got from nigerians . "
jonathan does n't only write about soccer .
he discusses other things that have been troubling his people for a long time : the inconsistent and insufficient electricity production , say , or environmental problems in the niger delta .
and it seems the nigerians have taken to the idea of a conversation with their head of state .
each entry by the president quickly attracts between 1,500 and 2,000 comments .
at the same internet cafe in sokoto , abdurrahman mohammed is also excited about the new opportunities the web has brought .
" i opened a facebook page because i saw how many other people were getting on the social network , " he said .
" i can use facebook to let people know what i think .
and i hope i can do my bit to make so many things in my country and the world better .
i think what our president has done is great .
it 's good for all nigerians . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : of nigeria 's 11 million internet users , only around one million of them are on facebook muslim leaders also seek new followers on facebook and it is n't just politicians and regular citizens in nigeria who have discovered the internet and social networks .
muslim imams are also trying to gain new followers by using facebook .
usman aliyu is one of them .
he uses facebook as a platform to discuss religious and social issues .
" i opened a facebook page because i want to know how people act within the social network , " he said .
" we ’ ve seen that many young people are very active on facebook .
so we use that as a way to show how religious concepts and the correct way of acting applies to their daily lives , " he explained .
lawal aliyu is exactly the kind of person the imam is targeting , but he does n't have time for what he sees as small ideas .
to him facebook is more about getting out into the world .
" facebook is a website where people can give their opinions or discuss problems , " he said .
" in our country , people often do n't always have courage to say what they think in public .
but on facebook they can write what they want .
the whole world can see it , react to it and make suggestions . "
author : mohammad awal -lrb- cf -rrb- editor : ranjitha balasubramanyam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german officials charge facebook with privacy violations german data protection officials go after facebook for storing personal data of non-users .
meanwhile , another official advocates creating a smartphone app for users to track personal information gathered about them .
-lrb- 08.07.2010 -rrb- nigerian president 's death could trigger sectarian violence nigerian president umaru yar 'adua has died following a long illness that had sparked a leadership crisis in the country .
analysts expect his succession to be the most hotly contested since nigeria 's return to democracy .
-lrb- 06.05.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic nigerian president interacts with citizens on facebook 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- feedback how far can dortmund go in the europa league this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions match day nine picks the dw sports team picks the scores in the bundesliga ... for the ninth time .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- feedback how far can dortmund go in the europa league this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live bundesliga predictions match day 17 picks the dw pundits are back from the alien abduction that kept them silent last week .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- feedback how far can dortmund go in the europa league this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- feedback how far can dortmund go in the europa league this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
naked lunch , berlin style -pipe- culture column -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de culture -pipe- 30.07.2010 naked lunch , berlin style großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for some berliners , summer means ditching the clothes and strutting around without a care in the world .
there 's nothing wrong with that per se , but for bashful ex-pat brits , it can be a truly miserable experience . i recall one summer a couple of years ago lying in the grass in berlin 's tiergarten park , enjoying the fragrant breeze on my face , the warm smell of fresh summer grass and the playful twitter of birds in the trees .
my meditations were disrupted by a male voice asking , " have you got a light ? " i awoke from my daydream and looked up to see a rather hefty middle-aged man sporting at least five bellies standing above me holding a cigarette .
nothing unusual in this you might think - except he was stark naked .
i coughed and spluttered for a moment , rather bashfully rummaged through my bag and held out a lighter in his vague direction while suddenly becoming most interested in intently studying the daisy to my left . after lighting his cigarette , this colossal lump of nakedness then saw fit to stand there for a further 10 minutes discussing the weather .
given that it is rather rude not to make eye contact with someone with whom you are engaged in conversation , i did rather feel obliged to cast the occasional furtive glance in his direction .
however , given that i was lying in the grass and he was standing above me , all i ever seemed to make eye contact with was his looming collection of dangly bits and pieces .
most disturbing . this bold example of nakedness is known as fkk - freikoerperkultur , or naked body culture - and your average german does n't have a problem with it .
even if they themselves do n't strut around in their birthday suit all summer , they seldom seem to notice , much less comment on , other people 's nakedness .
at this time of year , when the temperature has risen at least four million degrees , most berliners are launching themselves into the nearest body of water .
and a good number do so without a stitch on . visit one of berlin 's many lakes -lrb- or indeed some parks -rrb- and thrown into the mix of bathers wearing sensible swimwear , you 'll also see mountains of naked flesh .
some lakes and beaches have designated nudist areas while many others are mixed .
of course this open attitude to nudity in germany is a very healthy one ; small children can splash about in the lake with no clothes on without their parents fearing that a paedophile will jump out from behind the nearest bush while granny and grandpa can enjoy an early evening dip au naturelle quite content with each others ' sagging bodies . bildunterschrift : germans in touch with nature in the 1970s ... brits should enter at their own risk the first fkk club was founded in essen in 1898 with the first nudist beach -lrb- on sylt -rrb- welcoming naked bathers in 1920 .
while attitudes to fkk became increasingly conservative in west germany throughout the 70s and 80s , their east german counterparts still revelled in the feeling of freedom that comes with prancing around in the sun with all their bits and pieces jiggling about .
it has absolutely nothing to do with sex and more to do with man in touch with nature ... or such other primitive nonsense . of course , as a brit , while i find the concept of fkk harmless , in practice it is highly embarrassing .
we have no culture of public displays of nudity in the uk unless you can class the occasional streaker at a cricket match in the 1970s as a healthy display of fkk .
on the contrary , nudity is something to be sniggered at by the prudish brits .
after all , we grew up with benny hill and the carry on films ; types of comedy which taught us that big wobbly breasts were hilarious and the word " knickers " among the funniest in the language . a friend of mine once admonished me for hiding behind a newspaper when some naked swimmers walked past with the rather flimsy justification that " the ducks are naked and that does n't embarrass you . "
no dear , but then again , when was the last time you saw a duck waddling down the street in a three-piece suit ? with this summer being hotter than ever , more and more berliners are trekking to the shady tranquility of the city 's lakes with a good proportion content to do so with no clothes on whatsoever .
next time you 're there , take a break from casting a peep at the naked breasts beside you and indulge in some brit spotting instead ; they 're the ones tittering and spluttering behind their sandwiches at the sight of someone 's bottom . gavin blackburn still enjoys a swim at the lake ... dressed in sensible trousers , a duffel coat and balaclava . editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last week 's column when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- swiss want to do away with bare sightings one wild beast the swiss do n't want to see swinging down the trail towards them is a naked german hiker .
-lrb- 10.02.2009 -rrb- east germany 's fascination with flesh gets more exposure a new book detailing east germany 's passion for nudity is set to be launched in typically candid style just weeks after a documentary exposed the communist regime 's secret porn industry .
-lrb- 28.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic visit the world 's largest nudist colony in southern france dw-radio : inside europe www-links missed a ' scene in berlin ' ?
read past editions here feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live european journal - the magazine from brussels we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : the latest from germany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
blog berlin culture crawl get another insider perspective on berlin .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback have google 's actions concerned you ?
do you worry about online data protection ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards voting is underway at the bobs - deutsche welle 's annual blog contest .
cast your ballot social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback have google 's actions concerned you ?
do you worry about online data protection ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback have google 's actions concerned you ?
do you worry about online data protection ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook energy researchers hope nuclear fusion reactors could put an end to the world 's energy problems .
endless energy health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
quiz take the quiz - win an ipad !
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback have google 's actions concerned you ?
do you worry about online data protection ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback have google 's actions concerned you ?
do you worry about online data protection ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
naked lunch , berlin style -pipe- culture column -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de culture -pipe- 30.07.2010 naked lunch , berlin style großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for some berliners , summer means ditching the clothes and strutting around without a care in the world .
there 's nothing wrong with that per se , but for bashful ex-pat brits , it can be a truly miserable experience . i recall one summer a couple of years ago lying in the grass in berlin 's tiergarten park , enjoying the fragrant breeze on my face , the warm smell of fresh summer grass and the playful twitter of birds in the trees .
my meditations were disrupted by a male voice asking , " have you got a light ? " i awoke from my daydream and looked up to see a rather hefty middle-aged man sporting at least five bellies standing above me holding a cigarette .
nothing unusual in this you might think - except he was stark naked .
i coughed and spluttered for a moment , rather bashfully rummaged through my bag and held out a lighter in his vague direction while suddenly becoming most interested in intently studying the daisy to my left . after lighting his cigarette , this colossal lump of nakedness then saw fit to stand there for a further 10 minutes discussing the weather .
given that it is rather rude not to make eye contact with someone with whom you are engaged in conversation , i did rather feel obliged to cast the occasional furtive glance in his direction .
however , given that i was lying in the grass and he was standing above me , all i ever seemed to make eye contact with was his looming collection of dangly bits and pieces .
most disturbing . this bold example of nakedness is known as fkk - freikoerperkultur , or naked body culture - and your average german does n't have a problem with it .
even if they themselves do n't strut around in their birthday suit all summer , they seldom seem to notice , much less comment on , other people 's nakedness .
at this time of year , when the temperature has risen at least four million degrees , most berliners are launching themselves into the nearest body of water .
and a good number do so without a stitch on . visit one of berlin 's many lakes -lrb- or indeed some parks -rrb- and thrown into the mix of bathers wearing sensible swimwear , you 'll also see mountains of naked flesh .
some lakes and beaches have designated nudist areas while many others are mixed .
of course this open attitude to nudity in germany is a very healthy one ; small children can splash about in the lake with no clothes on without their parents fearing that a paedophile will jump out from behind the nearest bush while granny and grandpa can enjoy an early evening dip au naturelle quite content with each others ' sagging bodies . bildunterschrift : germans in touch with nature in the 1970s ... brits should enter at their own risk the first fkk club was founded in essen in 1898 with the first nudist beach -lrb- on sylt -rrb- welcoming naked bathers in 1920 .
while attitudes to fkk became increasingly conservative in west germany throughout the 70s and 80s , their east german counterparts still revelled in the feeling of freedom that comes with prancing around in the sun with all their bits and pieces jiggling about .
it has absolutely nothing to do with sex and more to do with man in touch with nature ... or such other primitive nonsense . of course , as a brit , while i find the concept of fkk harmless , in practice it is highly embarrassing .
we have no culture of public displays of nudity in the uk unless you can class the occasional streaker at a cricket match in the 1970s as a healthy display of fkk .
on the contrary , nudity is something to be sniggered at by the prudish brits .
after all , we grew up with benny hill and the carry on films ; types of comedy which taught us that big wobbly breasts were hilarious and the word " knickers " among the funniest in the language . a friend of mine once admonished me for hiding behind a newspaper when some naked swimmers walked past with the rather flimsy justification that " the ducks are naked and that does n't embarrass you . "
no dear , but then again , when was the last time you saw a duck waddling down the street in a three-piece suit ? with this summer being hotter than ever , more and more berliners are trekking to the shady tranquility of the city 's lakes with a good proportion content to do so with no clothes on whatsoever .
next time you 're there , take a break from casting a peep at the naked breasts beside you and indulge in some brit spotting instead ; they 're the ones tittering and spluttering behind their sandwiches at the sight of someone 's bottom . neale lytollis still enjoys a swim at the lake ... dressed in sensible trousers , a duffel coat and balaclava . editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last week 's column when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- swiss want to do away with bare sightings one wild beast the swiss do n't want to see swinging down the trail towards them is a naked german hiker .
-lrb- 10.02.2009 -rrb- east germany 's fascination with flesh gets more exposure a new book detailing east germany 's passion for nudity is set to be launched in typically candid style just weeks after a documentary exposed the communist regime 's secret porn industry .
-lrb- 28.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic visit the world 's largest nudist colony in southern france dw-radio : inside europe www-links missed a ' scene in berlin ' ?
read past editions here feedback does public nudity make you blush or are you a carefree fkk fanatic ?
send us an e-mail with your opinion !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live social media become a fan follow deutsche welle on the online interactive platform facebook .
word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view link berlin culture crawl blogger lily philipose bases each post on conversations with berliners on what they 're up to . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
revolution calling women have played a crucial role in the arab uprisings , using the internet to spread the message .
watch the video security concerns there is a growing connection between security and natural resources .
listen to the interview podcast series life without the arts would be a lot less colorful , but guides like lukas help experience the arts .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cairo crisis egypt 's military council has warned protesters it will move in to break up the demonstrations .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
podcast series a london teen helps integrate autistic adults into society .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
culture calendar july happenings from wagner to world music - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
recent picture galleries car fetish exhibition berlin fashion week day of the kiss ai weiwei , the photographer podcast series traveling on a budget ?
dw presents shoestring guides to european cities .
get all the episodes subscribe on itunes get the rss feed podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
dw-tv meet exceptional women who have achieved success in male-dominated jobs .
dj smokin joe car designer juliane blasi architect zeynep fadillioglu chef annie féolde conductor inma shara podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- feedback to what extent should berlin hinder the process of gentrification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
food try these recipes for a taste of europe .
hearty irish stew knödel dumplings with meat filling ribolitta from florence berlin-style pork with potatoes fish from lake traunsee in austria cologne fish with gourmet twist sweet-savory pheasant from leeds escudella vegetable and meat soup podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 10 - 1000 robota with a new take on punk subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- feedback to what extent should berlin hinder the process of gentrification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live culture calendar october happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- feedback to what extent should berlin hinder the process of gentrification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live culture calendar november happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- feedback to what extent should berlin hinder the process of gentrification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
picture gallery christmas markets holiday cheer ís easy to come by during the advent season in germany .
travel explore some of europe 's most fascinating cities with dw-tv 's euromaxx .
athens , greece trieste , italy krakow , poland le mans , france tarragona , spain oslo , norway edinburgh , scotland dresden , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- feedback to what extent should berlin hinder the process of gentrification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 12 - favorite alt-rockers ja , panik are back subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- feedback to what extent should berlin hinder the process of gentrification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live arts meet some of the people who are transforming germany 's ruhr region .
singer riccardo doppio graffiti artist danijel brekalo architect gabriele frielinghaus designer constanze alef photography an italian photo project aims to break down barriers between generations and cultures .
listen to the report picture gallery podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
african aid germany has been slow to react to the way china and others are changing the rules on aid for africa .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
baby doc 's back the return of former haitian dictator ' baby doc ' duvalier could add to the country 's instability .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet environment matters from around the world listen live kyrgyzstan 's chaos kyrgyzstan goes to the polls on sunday but there are doubts that the outcome will ease the tensions .
watch the video taliban tactics nato convoys are increasingly coming under taliban attacks along the afghan-pakistani border watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
transatlantic voices expert opinion no international cooperation has been declared dead or dying as often as the european union .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour leipzig 1 listen live oil spill inquiry a us presidential probe chides the oil industry for misjudging the dangers of deep-sea drilling .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback have google 's actions concerned you ?
do you worry about online data protection ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook energy researchers hope nuclear fusion reactors could put an end to the world 's energy problems .
endless energy health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
quiz take the quiz - win an ipad !
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback have google 's actions concerned you ?
do you worry about online data protection ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
naked lunch , berlin style -pipe- culture column -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de culture -pipe- 30.07.2010 naked lunch , berlin style großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for some berliners , summer means ditching the clothes and strutting around without a care in the world .
there 's nothing wrong with that per se , but for bashful ex-pat brits , it can be a truly miserable experience . i recall one summer a couple of years ago lying in the grass in berlin 's tiergarten park , enjoying the fragrant breeze on my face , the warm smell of fresh summer grass and the playful twitter of birds in the trees .
my meditations were disrupted by a male voice asking , " have you got a light ? " i awoke from my daydream and looked up to see a rather hefty middle-aged man sporting at least five bellies standing above me holding a cigarette .
nothing unusual in this you might think - except he was stark naked .
i coughed and spluttered for a moment , rather bashfully rummaged through my bag and held out a lighter in his vague direction while suddenly becoming most interested in intently studying the daisy to my left . after lighting his cigarette , this colossal lump of nakedness then saw fit to stand there for a further 10 minutes discussing the weather .
given that it is rather rude not to make eye contact with someone with whom you are engaged in conversation , i did rather feel obliged to cast the occasional furtive glance in his direction .
however , given that i was lying in the grass and he was standing above me , all i ever seemed to make eye contact with was his looming collection of dangly bits and pieces .
most disturbing . this bold example of nakedness is known as fkk - freikoerperkultur , or naked body culture - and your average german does n't have a problem with it .
even if they themselves do n't strut around in their birthday suit all summer , they seldom seem to notice , much less comment on , other people 's nakedness .
at this time of year , when the temperature has risen at least four million degrees , most berliners are launching themselves into the nearest body of water .
and a good number do so without a stitch on . visit one of berlin 's many lakes -lrb- or indeed some parks -rrb- and thrown into the mix of bathers wearing sensible swimwear , you 'll also see mountains of naked flesh .
some lakes and beaches have designated nudist areas while many others are mixed .
of course this open attitude to nudity in germany is a very healthy one ; small children can splash about in the lake with no clothes on without their parents fearing that a paedophile will jump out from behind the nearest bush while granny and grandpa can enjoy an early evening dip au naturelle quite content with each others ' sagging bodies . bildunterschrift : germans in touch with nature in the 1970s ... brits should enter at their own risk the first fkk club was founded in essen in 1898 with the first nudist beach -lrb- on sylt -rrb- welcoming naked bathers in 1920 .
while attitudes to fkk became increasingly conservative in west germany throughout the 70s and 80s , their east german counterparts still revelled in the feeling of freedom that comes with prancing around in the sun with all their bits and pieces jiggling about .
it has absolutely nothing to do with sex and more to do with man in touch with nature ... or such other primitive nonsense . of course , as a brit , while i find the concept of fkk harmless , in practice it is highly embarrassing .
we have no culture of public displays of nudity in the uk unless you can class the occasional streaker at a cricket match in the 1970s as a healthy display of fkk .
on the contrary , nudity is something to be sniggered at by the prudish brits .
after all , we grew up with benny hill and the carry on films ; types of comedy which taught us that big wobbly breasts were hilarious and the word " knickers " among the funniest in the language . a friend of mine once admonished me for hiding behind a newspaper when some naked swimmers walked past with the rather flimsy justification that " the ducks are naked and that does n't embarrass you . "
no dear , but then again , when was the last time you saw a duck waddling down the street in a three-piece suit ? with this summer being hotter than ever , more and more berliners are trekking to the shady tranquility of the city 's lakes with a good proportion content to do so with no clothes on whatsoever .
next time you 're there , take a break from casting a peep at the naked breasts beside you and indulge in some brit spotting instead ; they 're the ones tittering and spluttering behind their sandwiches at the sight of someone 's bottom . gavin blackburn still enjoys a swim at the lake ... dressed in sensible trousers , a duffel coat and balaclava . editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last week 's column when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- swiss want to do away with bare sightings one wild beast the swiss do n't want to see swinging down the trail towards them is a naked german hiker .
-lrb- 10.02.2009 -rrb- east germany 's fascination with flesh gets more exposure a new book detailing east germany 's passion for nudity is set to be launched in typically candid style just weeks after a documentary exposed the communist regime 's secret porn industry .
-lrb- 28.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic visit the world 's largest nudist colony in southern france dw-radio : inside europe www-links missed a ' scene in berlin ' ?
read past editions here feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
dw-tv meet exceptional women who have achieved success in male-dominated jobs .
dj smokin joe car designer juliane blasi architect zeynep fadillioglu chef annie féolde conductor inma shara podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
naked lunch , berlin style -pipe- culture column -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de culture -pipe- 30.07.2010 naked lunch , berlin style großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for some berliners , summer means ditching the clothes and strutting around without a care in the world .
there 's nothing wrong with that per se , but for bashful ex-pat brits , it can be a truly miserable experience . i recall one summer a couple of years ago lying in the grass in berlin 's tiergarten park , enjoying the fragrant breeze on my face , the warm smell of fresh summer grass and the playful twitter of birds in the trees .
my meditations were disrupted by a male voice asking , " have you got a light ? " i awoke from my daydream and looked up to see a rather hefty middle-aged man sporting at least five bellies standing above me holding a cigarette .
nothing unusual in this you might think - except he was stark naked .
i coughed and spluttered for a moment , rather bashfully rummaged through my bag and held out a lighter in his vague direction while suddenly becoming most interested in intently studying the daisy to my left . after lighting his cigarette , this colossal lump of nakedness then saw fit to stand there for a further 10 minutes discussing the weather .
given that it is rather rude not to make eye contact with someone with whom you are engaged in conversation , i did rather feel obliged to cast the occasional furtive glance in his direction .
however , given that i was lying in the grass and he was standing above me , all i ever seemed to make eye contact with was his looming collection of dangly bits and pieces .
most disturbing . this bold example of nakedness is known as fkk - freikoerperkultur , or naked body culture - and your average german does n't have a problem with it .
even if they themselves do n't strut around in their birthday suit all summer , they seldom seem to notice , much less comment on , other people 's nakedness .
at this time of year , when the temperature has risen at least four million degrees , most berliners are launching themselves into the nearest body of water .
and a good number do so without a stitch on . visit one of berlin 's many lakes -lrb- or indeed some parks -rrb- and thrown into the mix of bathers wearing sensible swimwear , you 'll also see mountains of naked flesh .
some lakes and beaches have designated nudist areas while many others are mixed .
of course this open attitude to nudity in germany is a very healthy one ; small children can splash about in the lake with no clothes on without their parents fearing that a paedophile will jump out from behind the nearest bush while granny and grandpa can enjoy an early evening dip au naturelle quite content with each others ' sagging bodies . bildunterschrift : germans in touch with nature in the 1970s ... brits should enter at their own risk the first fkk club was founded in essen in 1898 with the first nudist beach -lrb- on sylt -rrb- welcoming naked bathers in 1920 .
while attitudes to fkk became increasingly conservative in west germany throughout the 70s and 80s , their east german counterparts still revelled in the feeling of freedom that comes with prancing around in the sun with all their bits and pieces jiggling about .
it has absolutely nothing to do with sex and more to do with man in touch with nature ... or such other primitive nonsense . of course , as a brit , while i find the concept of fkk harmless , in practice it is highly embarrassing .
we have no culture of public displays of nudity in the uk unless you can class the occasional streaker at a cricket match in the 1970s as a healthy display of fkk .
on the contrary , nudity is something to be sniggered at by the prudish brits .
after all , we grew up with benny hill and the carry on films ; types of comedy which taught us that big wobbly breasts were hilarious and the word " knickers " among the funniest in the language . a friend of mine once admonished me for hiding behind a newspaper when some naked swimmers walked past with the rather flimsy justification that " the ducks are naked and that does n't embarrass you . "
no dear , but then again , when was the last time you saw a duck waddling down the street in a three-piece suit ? with this summer being hotter than ever , more and more berliners are trekking to the shady tranquility of the city 's lakes with a good proportion content to do so with no clothes on whatsoever .
next time you 're there , take a break from casting a peep at the naked breasts beside you and indulge in some brit spotting instead ; they 're the ones tittering and spluttering behind their sandwiches at the sight of someone 's bottom . neale lytollis still enjoys a swim at the lake ... dressed in sensible trousers , a duffel coat and balaclava . editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last week 's column when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- swiss want to do away with bare sightings one wild beast the swiss do n't want to see swinging down the trail towards them is a naked german hiker .
-lrb- 10.02.2009 -rrb- east germany 's fascination with flesh gets more exposure a new book detailing east germany 's passion for nudity is set to be launched in typically candid style just weeks after a documentary exposed the communist regime 's secret porn industry .
-lrb- 28.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic visit the world 's largest nudist colony in southern france dw-radio : inside europe www-links missed a ' scene in berlin ' ?
read past editions here feedback does public nudity make you blush or are you a carefree fkk fanatic ?
send us an e-mail with your opinion !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
food try these recipes for a taste of europe .
hearty irish stew knödel dumplings with meat filling ribolitta from florence berlin-style pork with potatoes fish from lake traunsee in austria cologne fish with gourmet twist sweet-savory pheasant from leeds escudella vegetable and meat soup podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 10 - 1000 robota with a new take on punk subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - news with reporters we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
naked lunch , berlin style -pipe- culture column -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de culture -pipe- 30.07.2010 naked lunch , berlin style großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for some berliners , summer means ditching the clothes and strutting around without a care in the world .
there 's nothing wrong with that per se , but for bashful ex-pat brits , it can be a truly miserable experience . i recall one summer a couple of years ago lying in the grass in berlin 's tiergarten park , enjoying the fragrant breeze on my face , the warm smell of fresh summer grass and the playful twitter of birds in the trees .
my meditations were disrupted by a male voice asking , " have you got a light ? " i awoke from my daydream and looked up to see a rather hefty middle-aged man sporting at least five bellies standing above me holding a cigarette .
nothing unusual in this you might think - except he was stark naked .
i coughed and spluttered for a moment , rather bashfully rummaged through my bag and held out a lighter in his vague direction while suddenly becoming most interested in intently studying the daisy to my left . after lighting his cigarette , this colossal lump of nakedness then saw fit to stand there for a further 10 minutes discussing the weather .
given that it is rather rude not to make eye contact with someone with whom you are engaged in conversation , i did rather feel obliged to cast the occasional furtive glance in his direction .
however , given that i was lying in the grass and he was standing above me , all i ever seemed to make eye contact with was his looming collection of dangly bits and pieces .
most disturbing . this bold example of nakedness is known as fkk - freikoerperkultur , or naked body culture - and your average german does n't have a problem with it .
even if they themselves do n't strut around in their birthday suit all summer , they seldom seem to notice , much less comment on , other people 's nakedness .
at this time of year , when the temperature has risen at least four million degrees , most berliners are launching themselves into the nearest body of water .
and a good number do so without a stitch on . visit one of berlin 's many lakes -lrb- or indeed some parks -rrb- and thrown into the mix of bathers wearing sensible swimwear , you 'll also see mountains of naked flesh .
some lakes and beaches have designated nudist areas while many others are mixed .
of course this open attitude to nudity in germany is a very healthy one ; small children can splash about in the lake with no clothes on without their parents fearing that a paedophile will jump out from behind the nearest bush while granny and grandpa can enjoy an early evening dip au naturelle quite content with each others ' sagging bodies . bildunterschrift : germans in touch with nature in the 1970s ... brits should enter at their own risk the first fkk club was founded in essen in 1898 with the first nudist beach -lrb- on sylt -rrb- welcoming naked bathers in 1920 .
while attitudes to fkk became increasingly conservative in west germany throughout the 70s and 80s , their east german counterparts still revelled in the feeling of freedom that comes with prancing around in the sun with all their bits and pieces jiggling about .
it has absolutely nothing to do with sex and more to do with man in touch with nature ... or such other primitive nonsense . of course , as a brit , while i find the concept of fkk harmless , in practice it is highly embarrassing .
we have no culture of public displays of nudity in the uk unless you can class the occasional streaker at a cricket match in the 1970s as a healthy display of fkk .
on the contrary , nudity is something to be sniggered at by the prudish brits .
after all , we grew up with benny hill and the carry on films ; types of comedy which taught us that big wobbly breasts were hilarious and the word " knickers " among the funniest in the language . a friend of mine once admonished me for hiding behind a newspaper when some naked swimmers walked past with the rather flimsy justification that " the ducks are naked and that does n't embarrass you . "
no dear , but then again , when was the last time you saw a duck waddling down the street in a three-piece suit ? with this summer being hotter than ever , more and more berliners are trekking to the shady tranquility of the city 's lakes with a good proportion content to do so with no clothes on whatsoever .
next time you 're there , take a break from casting a peep at the naked breasts beside you and indulge in some brit spotting instead ; they 're the ones tittering and spluttering behind their sandwiches at the sight of someone 's bottom . neale lytollis still enjoys a swim at the lake ... dressed in sensible trousers , a duffel coat and balaclava . editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last week 's column when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- swiss want to do away with bare sightings one wild beast the swiss do n't want to see swinging down the trail towards them is a naked german hiker .
-lrb- 10.02.2009 -rrb- east germany 's fascination with flesh gets more exposure a new book detailing east germany 's passion for nudity is set to be launched in typically candid style just weeks after a documentary exposed the communist regime 's secret porn industry .
-lrb- 28.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic visit the world 's largest nudist colony in southern france dw-radio : inside europe www-links missed a ' scene in berlin ' ?
read past editions here feedback does public nudity make you blush or are you a carefree fkk fanatic ?
send us an e-mail with your opinion !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live partner npr berlin national public radio provides noncommercial news , talk , and entertainment from the us .
social media become a fan follow deutsche welle on the online interactive platform facebook .
word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view link berlin culture crawl blogger lily philipose bases each post on conversations with berliners on what they 're up to . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kremlin human rights adviser quits amidst retrograde rights climate -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 30.07.2010 kremlin human rights adviser quits amidst retrograde rights climate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pamfilova had grown tired of being persecuted the kremlin 's top human rights adviser has stepped down in the face of hostility from a pro-kremlin , nationalist youth group .
ella pamfilova had fought to make russia more just , but often came up against a brick wall . the chairman of russia 's presidential council on human rights resigned friday in a move widely seen as a protest against the deteriorating rights situation in russia . ella pamfilova , the activist who chaired president dmitry medvedev 's council on human rights and oversaw the development of civil society , resigned amidst heavy fire from the nashi nationalist youth group , as well as strong disagreement with medvedev 's human rights policies . " she wanted to resign because she had simply had enough of the persecution that was circling around her , " pamfilova 's fellow council member , irina yasina , told the interfax news agency . accused of slander the pro-kremlin youth movement nashi had threatened to sue pamfilova for slander after she criticized the group for an exhibition staged at its annual summer camp on lake seliger . the exhibition featured images of the heads of russian liberal leaders , such as 83-year-old human-rights activist lyudmila alexeyeva , stuck on stakes in nazi helmets . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the naschi youth group welcomed pamfilova 's resignation when images of the exhibition surfaced after president medvedev 's visit to the camp , pamfilova told the echo of moscow radio station she was " frightened " to realize " that these guys will come to power in a number of years . " " that will be terrible , " she said , adding , " that is intolerable - more so because the president has been there , at seliger . "
pamfilova , it seems , saw no way to continue working for the kremlin , which lends its full moral support to the nashi youth group .
she also accused the movement of burning books . " as chairman of the council , unfortunately i do not know what to do about this , apart from speak out and say that this is an outrage .
if these cynical guys who do n't care about anything , allow themselves anything , persecute people , because they know that adult men in high positions protect them , then that is terrible for the country , " she warned . ' men in high positions ' the day before pamfilova 's resignation , medvedev signed legislation to strengthen the fsb , the kgb 's secret-service successor - a move pamfilova 's council deemed the " rebirth of the unlawful and worst practices of a totalitarian state , with the goal of seeding fear and mistrust in the people . " she did not give specific reasons for her resignation , but said she planned to change her " sphere of activity " and that it would " definitely not be politics or state service . " pamfilova said that her decision to leave her post was not taken overnight . the activist had told european union officials in march that russia 's democratic institutions were underdeveloped and that there had been no significant progress in civil rights . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : activists had hoped medvedev would improve russia 's human rights the kremlin suggested in a statement to reporters that pamfilova 's departure was long in coming . " this is not the first time that this issue has appeared , " said medvedev 's spokeswoman natalya timakova . human rights groups have expressed their deep regret at pamfilova 's departure .
author : geert groot koerkamp -lrb- dl / ap / afp / reuters -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de russian upper house increases kgb successor 's power , to activists ' dismay president medvedev 's bill to increase secret police powers has won parliament 's approval .
human rights activists fear the government may use the law against the opposition , returning to a soviet-style police state .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- chechen activists still live in fear a year after colleague 's murder one year ago , one of chechnya 's best-known human rights activists was mysteriously abducted and murdered .
natalya estemirova 's death is still fresh in the minds of her colleagues , who fear it could happen again .
-lrb- 15.07.2010 -rrb- sakharov prize winner calls on eu to put more pressure on russia one of the leaders of the human rights group memorial used his acceptance speech for the sakharov prize in the european parliament to call on the european union to put more pressure on russia .
-lrb- 16.12.2009 -rrb- feedback is russia 's human rights climate worsening ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kremlin human rights adviser quits amidst retrograde rights climate -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 30.07.2010 kremlin human rights adviser quits amidst retrograde rights climate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pamfilova had grown tired of being persecuted the kremlin 's top human rights adviser has stepped down in the face of hostility from a pro-kremlin , nationalist youth group .
ella pamfilova had fought to make russia more just , but often came up against a brick wall . the chairman of russia 's presidential council on human rights resigned friday in a move widely seen as a protest against the deteriorating rights situation in russia . ella pamfilova , the activist who chaired president dmitry medvedev 's council on human rights and oversaw the development of civil society , resigned amidst heavy fire from the nashi nationalist youth group , as well as strong disagreement with medvedev 's human rights policies . " she wanted to resign because she had simply had enough of the persecution that was circling around her , " pamfilova 's fellow council member , irina yasina , told the interfax news agency . accused of slander the pro-kremlin youth movement nashi had threatened to sue pamfilova for slander after she criticized the group for an exhibition staged at its annual summer camp on lake seliger . the exhibition featured images of the heads of russian liberal leaders , such as 83-year-old human-rights activist lyudmila alexeyeva , stuck on stakes in nazi helmets . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the naschi youth group welcomed pamfilova 's resignation when images of the exhibition surfaced after president medvedev 's visit to the camp , pamfilova told the echo of moscow radio station she was " frightened " to realize " that these guys will come to power in a number of years . " " that will be terrible , " she said , adding , " that is intolerable - more so because the president has been there , at seliger . "
pamfilova , it seems , saw no way to continue working for the kremlin , which lends its full moral support to the nashi youth group .
she also accused the movement of burning books . " as chairman of the council , unfortunately i do not know what to do about this , apart from speak out and say that this is an outrage .
if these cynical guys who do n't care about anything , allow themselves anything , persecute people , because they know that adult men in high positions protect them , then that is terrible for the country , " she warned . ' men in high positions ' the day before pamfilova 's resignation , medvedev signed legislation to strengthen the fsb , the kgb 's secret-service successor - a move pamfilova 's council deemed the " rebirth of the unlawful and worst practices of a totalitarian state , with the goal of seeding fear and mistrust in the people . " she did not give specific reasons for her resignation , but said she planned to change her " sphere of activity " and that it would " definitely not be politics or state service . " pamfilova said that her decision to leave her post was not taken overnight . the activist had told european union officials in march that russia 's democratic institutions were underdeveloped and that there had been no significant progress in civil rights . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : activists had hoped medvedev would improve russia 's human rights the kremlin suggested in a statement to reporters that pamfilova 's departure was long in coming . " this is not the first time that this issue has appeared , " said medvedev 's spokeswoman natalya timakova . human rights groups have expressed their deep regret at pamfilova 's departure .
author : geert groot koerkamp -lrb- dl / ap / afp / reuters -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de russian upper house increases kgb successor 's power , to activists ' dismay president medvedev 's bill to increase secret police powers has won parliament 's approval .
human rights activists fear the government may use the law against the opposition , returning to a soviet-style police state .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- chechen activists still live in fear a year after colleague 's murder one year ago , one of chechnya 's best-known human rights activists was mysteriously abducted and murdered .
natalya estemirova 's death is still fresh in the minds of her colleagues , who fear it could happen again .
-lrb- 15.07.2010 -rrb- sakharov prize winner calls on eu to put more pressure on russia one of the leaders of the human rights group memorial used his acceptance speech for the sakharov prize in the european parliament to call on the european union to put more pressure on russia .
-lrb- 16.12.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink news and perspectives from the heart of europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art schools for the russian minority in latvia could soon be forced to scrap bilingual lessons .
listen to the report nuclear energy what is evil ?
renowned british intellectual terry eagleton looks it squarely in the face .
watch the video europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kremlin human rights adviser quits amidst retrograde rights climate -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 30.07.2010 kremlin human rights adviser quits amidst retrograde rights climate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pamfilova had grown tired of being persecuted the kremlin 's top human rights adviser has stepped down in the face of hostility from a pro-kremlin , nationalist youth group .
ella pamfilova had fought to make russia more just , but often came up against a brick wall . the chairman of russia 's presidential council on human rights resigned friday in a move widely seen as a protest against the deteriorating rights situation in russia . ella pamfilova , the activist who chaired president dmitry medvedev 's council on human rights and oversaw the development of civil society , resigned amidst heavy fire from the nashi nationalist youth group , as well as strong disagreement with medvedev 's human rights policies . " she wanted to resign because she had simply had enough of the persecution that was circling around her , " pamfilova 's fellow council member , irina yasina , told the interfax news agency . accused of slander the pro-kremlin youth movement nashi had threatened to sue pamfilova for slander after she criticized the group for an exhibition staged at its annual summer camp on lake seliger . the exhibition featured images of the heads of russian liberal leaders , such as 83-year-old human-rights activist lyudmila alexeyeva , stuck on stakes in nazi helmets . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the naschi youth group welcomed pamfilova 's resignation when images of the exhibition surfaced after president medvedev 's visit to the camp , pamfilova told the echo of moscow radio station she was " frightened " to realize " that these guys will come to power in a number of years . " " that will be terrible , " she said , adding , " that is intolerable - more so because the president has been there , at seliger . "
pamfilova , it seems , saw no way to continue working for the kremlin , which lends its full moral support to the nashi youth group .
she also accused the movement of burning books . " as chairman of the council , unfortunately i do not know what to do about this , apart from speak out and say that this is an outrage .
if these cynical guys who do n't care about anything , allow themselves anything , persecute people , because they know that adult men in high positions protect them , then that is terrible for the country , " she warned . ' men in high positions ' the day before pamfilova 's resignation , medvedev signed legislation to strengthen the fsb , the kgb 's secret-service successor - a move pamfilova 's council deemed the " rebirth of the unlawful and worst practices of a totalitarian state , with the goal of seeding fear and mistrust in the people . " she did not give specific reasons for her resignation , but said she planned to change her " sphere of activity " and that it would " definitely not be politics or state service . " pamfilova said that her decision to leave her post was not taken overnight . the activist had told european union officials in march that russia 's democratic institutions were underdeveloped and that there had been no significant progress in civil rights . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : activists had hoped medvedev would improve russia 's human rights the kremlin suggested in a statement to reporters that pamfilova 's departure was long in coming . " this is not the first time that this issue has appeared , " said medvedev 's spokeswoman natalya timakova . human rights groups have expressed their deep regret at pamfilova 's departure .
author : geert groot koerkamp -lrb- dl / ap / afp / reuters -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de russian upper house increases kgb successor 's power , to activists ' dismay president medvedev 's bill to increase secret police powers has won parliament 's approval .
human rights activists fear the government may use the law against the opposition , returning to a soviet-style police state .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- chechen activists still live in fear a year after colleague 's murder one year ago , one of chechnya 's best-known human rights activists was mysteriously abducted and murdered .
natalya estemirova 's death is still fresh in the minds of her colleagues , who fear it could happen again .
-lrb- 15.07.2010 -rrb- sakharov prize winner calls on eu to put more pressure on russia one of the leaders of the human rights group memorial used his acceptance speech for the sakharov prize in the european parliament to call on the european union to put more pressure on russia .
-lrb- 16.12.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
austria there is no mention of women in the austrian national anthem , but that is about to change .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de peacekeeping -pipe- 30.07.2010 hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the somali police were trained in ethiopia , funded by germany almost 1,000 somali police have gone missing after their training was financed by the german government .
it is feared these officers will now join forces with the islamist militants al-shabaab . in september 2009 , the german government released $ 1 million -lrb- 760,000 euros -rrb- of funding to train somali police officers .
the training took place in ethiopia , and the new recruits were equipped with uniforms , weapons and knowledge with the aim of sending them back into somalia to try and keep peace in the fractured country .
two months after the completion of this training , almost 1,000 new police officers have reportedly disappeared en route to the somali capital mogadishu .
it is thought highly likely that these deserters have left to join opposition islamist militia in somalia .
in a statement , the german foreign office confirmed that funds were released to train somali police , and that in may 2010 , 925 trained officers were transported to somalia under ethiopian surveillance .
they did not comment on whether the police had deserted or not .
' training the opposition ' currently , the transitional somali government is struggling to suppress the militia , including al-qaeda sympathisers al-shabaab , who control as much as two-thirds of the country .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opposition militia control two-thirds of somalia germany is one of several countries who have committed to training security personnel as in indirect method of trying to help , without military intervention .
however , according to ulrich delius from the society for threatened peoples , the problem is that most of these newly trained recruits " leave after a few months " to go and work for the armed opposition .
" you have to ensure that these people really stay in the official army or police , " delius told deutsche welle .
" otherwise you are just training the people you will be fighting in a few months . "
a report published by the head of the un monitoring group on somalia , dumisani kumalo in 2008 , said 80 percent of trained security officers deserted their posts , taking with them their weapons , uniforms and the acquired knowledge .
reasons for desertion at a time when the transitional government is barely keeping a hold on the north of somalia , deserters may feel they are better off siding with the militants than the government .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : weapons have become valuable commodities " no one is sure who will be the government of tomorrow … so they are switching to survive , " delius said .
" also , you need a weapon and whether you get it from the police or from the armed opposition , it does not matter . "
he added that money was another strong incentive for joining the militants , as " somali warlords often offer more money than the official army or police . "
in this case , german media reports that the somali police were waiting for their pay from the german government before they disappeared .
another reason for discontent may be due to the fact that the training took place in ethiopia – a country with a long , bloody history with somalia .
" there 's a very strong feeling against ethiopia in all parts of somali society , " said delius .
stabilization the german government has come under fire for not only partnering with ethiopia , but also according to some sources , bypassing the correct united nations procedures and ignoring sanctions against somalia .
however , the foreign ministry said in a statement that it had informed both the un contact group on somalia and the un sanctions committee .
in recent weeks , the government has reconfirmed its commitment to aiding somalia , most recently at the african union summit in kampala .
german foreign minister guido westerwelle said that the training of police in somalia was a " substantial contribution " to stabilizing the country .
ulrich delius argues however that all the projects for training security forces will continue to have no effect until politicians start to " understand the root of the problems in somalia . "
author : catherine bolsover editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de somalia taking center stage at african union summit somalia is once again dominating the agenda at the biannual summit of african leaders .
experts agree that the tactics need to change in somalia in order for peace to return to the country .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- investigation opens into german mercenaries in somalia the public prosecutor in the german city of muenster has opened an investigation into reports that a german security firm is sending mercenaries to a somali warlord amid concerns the deal violates un sanctions .
-lrb- 26.05.2010 -rrb- experts say west needs to change half-hearted approach to somalia a conference on somalia is being convened by the united nations in istanbul with the aim of showing support for the somali people .
but observers say the west 's half-hearted approach is doing more harm than good .
-lrb- 21.05.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de peacekeeping -pipe- 30.07.2010 hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the somali police were trained in ethiopia , funded by germany almost 1,000 somali police have gone missing after their training was financed by the german government .
it is feared these officers will now join forces with the islamist militants al-shabaab . in september 2009 , the german government released $ 1 million -lrb- 760,000 euros -rrb- of funding to train somali police officers .
the training took place in ethiopia , and the new recruits were equipped with uniforms , weapons and knowledge with the aim of sending them back into somalia to try and keep peace in the fractured country .
two months after the completion of this training , almost 1,000 new police officers have reportedly disappeared en route to the somali capital mogadishu .
it is thought highly likely that these deserters have left to join opposition islamist militia in somalia .
in a statement , the german foreign office confirmed that funds were released to train somali police , and that in may 2010 , 925 trained officers were transported to somalia under ethiopian surveillance .
they did not comment on whether the police had deserted or not .
' training the opposition ' currently , the transitional somali government is struggling to suppress the militia , including al-qaeda sympathisers al-shabaab , who control as much as two-thirds of the country .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opposition militia control two-thirds of somalia germany is one of several countries who have committed to training security personnel as in indirect method of trying to help , without military intervention .
however , according to ulrich delius from the society for threatened peoples , the problem is that most of these newly trained recruits " leave after a few months " to go and work for the armed opposition .
" you have to ensure that these people really stay in the official army or police , " delius told deutsche welle .
" otherwise you are just training the people you will be fighting in a few months . "
a report published by the head of the un monitoring group on somalia , dumisani kumalo in 2008 , said 80 percent of trained security officers deserted their posts , taking with them their weapons , uniforms and the acquired knowledge .
reasons for desertion at a time when the transitional government is barely keeping a hold on the north of somalia , deserters may feel they are better off siding with the militants than the government .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : weapons have become valuable commodities " no one is sure who will be the government of tomorrow … so they are switching to survive , " delius said .
" also , you need a weapon and whether you get it from the police or from the armed opposition , it does not matter . "
he added that money was another strong incentive for joining the militants , as " somali warlords often offer more money than the official army or police . "
in this case , german media reports that the somali police were waiting for their pay from the german government before they disappeared .
another reason for discontent may be due to the fact that the training took place in ethiopia – a country with a long , bloody history with somalia .
" there 's a very strong feeling against ethiopia in all parts of somali society , " said delius .
stabilization the german government has come under fire for not only partnering with ethiopia , but also according to some sources , bypassing the correct united nations procedures and ignoring sanctions against somalia .
however , the foreign ministry said in a statement that it had informed both the un contact group on somalia and the un sanctions committee .
in recent weeks , the government has reconfirmed its commitment to aiding somalia , most recently at the african union summit in kampala .
german foreign minister guido westerwelle said that the training of police in somalia was a " substantial contribution " to stabilizing the country .
ulrich delius argues however that all the projects for training security forces will continue to have no effect until politicians start to " understand the root of the problems in somalia . "
author : catherine bolsover editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de somalia taking center stage at african union summit somalia is once again dominating the agenda at the biannual summit of african leaders .
experts agree that the tactics need to change in somalia in order for peace to return to the country .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- investigation opens into german mercenaries in somalia the public prosecutor in the german city of muenster has opened an investigation into reports that a german security firm is sending mercenaries to a somali warlord amid concerns the deal violates un sanctions .
-lrb- 26.05.2010 -rrb- experts say west needs to change half-hearted approach to somalia a conference on somalia is being convened by the united nations in istanbul with the aim of showing support for the somali people .
but observers say the west 's half-hearted approach is doing more harm than good .
-lrb- 21.05.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- feedback are megacities monsters or marvels ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 pakistan thomas baerthlein of the deutsche welle talks about the situation in flood-ravaged thatta the catastrophe click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
maoists in india dr. p. v. ramanna from the institute for defence studies and analyses in new delhi talks about the issue .
september asia quiz quiz of the month asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact -lrb- 15.09.2010 -rrb- leaders to go to kashmir for discussion deutsche welle reports from thatta in pakistan nazis in mongolia : a modern day aberration podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- feedback are megacities monsters or marvels ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 reader response feedback our readers and asia compact listeners love to send in their views .
here 's a selection .
global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media ceasefire thailand and cambodia have agreed on a new ceasefire deal after the earlier one failed .
robert carmichael , dw correspndent in phnom penh , reports on the latest developments listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 29.04.11 thailand and cambodia agree on a new ceasefire deal the new chinese census shows the communist country is ageing non-formal education in bhutan is on the rise podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile militancy there have been three militant attacks on the pakistan navy in karachi in less than a week .
former law minister of pakistan , iqbal haider , admits that his country 's security establishment is double-minded about the taliban prison break about 475 prisoners , mostly taliban fighters , managed to break out of a jail in kandahar on monday .
thomas ruttig of the afghanistan analysis network believes that the afghan government is corrupt and incompetent to run its affairs april asia quiz quiz of the month justice hate crime twelve men suspected of attacking members of the ahmadiyah community face trial in indonesia .
newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- feedback are megacities monsters or marvels ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 interview suu kyi calls for more support from europe the burmese civil rights activist talks to dw in an exclusive interview .
december asia quiz quiz of the month exhibition celebrating indian waste collectors a young german photographer has focused on waste and waste collectors in india .
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 17.12.10 obama 's afpak strategy review japan revises security policy wikileaks reveals kashmir torture reports podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online asia compact join us on facebook !
fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- feedback are megacities monsters or marvels ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 author arundhati roy could face sedition charges over kashmir comments .
prashant bhushan , a senior lawyer at the indian supreme court , gives his views on the issue october asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 27.10.10 un secretary-general in cambodia new war of words between india and china could arundhati roy face sedition charges ?
podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
asia compact join us on facebook !
islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- feedback are megacities monsters or marvels ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media japanese economy japan 's earthquake and tsunami are likely to affect the japanese economy in the coming weeks .
the world bank 's representative in washington , vikram nehru , believes it all depends on how well the japanese cope with the nculear issue libya air strikes china 's state media condemned military strikes on libya , saying they are a western grab for power .
gui hao , china expert at deutsche welle 's asia department , talks about the implications of the enhanced rhetoric march asia quiz quiz of the month digital stories deutsche welle 's partner website from pakistan listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 24.03.11 tibet exile government accepts dalai lama 's retirement gurkhas in britain fight for their rights dark times ahead for indian ' god-men ' podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- 9798 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media fukushima human error a report for the iaea points to human error as the cause of japan 's worst nuclear disaster .
politics police in bangladesh have detained many activists following a strike called by the opposition .
sultana kamal speaks about the political issue behind the arrests .
biodiversity saving the rare saola wwf says the establishment of a nature reserve in vietnam has brought new survival hopes for saolas .
employment indecent concentration of wealth is making life more difficult for common people .
thetis mangahas speaks on the employment situation in asia listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 10.06.11 hundreds arrested in bangladesh after strike against electoral change " red wedding " : a gruesome secret of the khmer rouge in cambodia money for garbage at mount everest podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile security concerns the sipri yearbook 2011 highlights growing security concerns linked to natural resources .
listen to the interview © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week money , power and heavy metal : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
olkiluoto 3 - finland builds the world 's biggest nuclear power plant nuclear power plants : after a shutdown peter paffhausen : from nuclear manager to green energy advocate heightened fears : geiger counters fly off the shelves stock exchange today in history 1957 : treaty of rome © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1833 : kaspar hauser dies © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
export champion - surteco makes the furniture industry go round freedom of movement - working across eu borders real estate boom - more and more people are investing in berlin audi and the dtm , part 3 - big race , big business stock exchange today in history 1972 : motion of no confidence against willy brandt © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1938 : kristallnacht © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week the european business week page listen to the latest european business week -lrb- 01.10.2010 -rrb- labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress development in a globalized world listen live stock exchange today in history 1949 : founding of the gdr © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live stock exchange today in history 1991 : " operation desert storm " begins © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1986 : ludwig museum opened in cologne © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live stock exchange today in history 711 : the arabs conquer spain dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1977 : death of wernher von braun dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china flourishing relations beijing and riyadh have become increasingly close in recent years .
politics pressure mounting thai prime minister-elect yingluck shinawatra faces big challenges in office .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business review we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook energy researchers hope nuclear fusion reactors could put an end to the world 's energy problems .
endless energy health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
quiz take the quiz - win an ipad !
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
city of aachen : history meets high-tech -pipe- study in germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de cities -pipe- 30.07.2010 city of aachen : history meets high-tech großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : aachen 's landmark cathedral is a unesco world heritage site aachen got its name from the natural hot springs that are located in the region .
health-spa enthusiasts still visit this spot today .
but the city 's image is also shaped by its university and rich history . aachen , with its 257,000 residents , is germany 's westernmost city , located just a stone 's throw away from belgium and the netherlands .
the city 's history goes back to the stone age .
although you wo n't find any visual evidence from this era , there are still some reminders of roman times .
ancient buildings , some of which were rebuilt after world war two , dominate the city center .
small alleyways , aging houses , numerous cafes and shops share space with imposing buildings like the town hall and the cathedral . " ahha " or " aqua " = aachen the name of the city comes from either the germanic " ahha " or from the latin " aqua , " both meaning " water . "
this was due to the local hot springs , as both the franks and the romans were very fond of them .
even charlemagne is believed to have bathed in these curative waters .
he felt so content in aachen that he designated it his favorite place and built a cathedral there . the big cathedral the aachen cathedral is the city 's landmark and dates back to the carolingian times .
its distinguishing feature is its octagonal dome structure .
it is shiny and golden on the inside and , along with the cathedral treasury , has been designated by unesco as a world heritage site . as the story goes , charlemagne ran out of money at some point during the building of the cathedral .
his solution : a pact with the devil , who allegedly paid for the expensive construction project in exchange for the soul of the first living being that entered the newly-built cathedral .
in response , the people of aachen captured a wolf and let it inside the cathedral as soon as it was finished .
the devil had to accept the wolf 's soul , which made him so angry that he stormed out of the cathedral , slamming the door shut behind him and losing one of his thumbs in the process .
today , you can still touch the trapped " devil 's thumb " inside the lion-head doorknob on the right main portal . historic town hall the aachen town hall is one of the most impressive buildings in aachen .
after numerous alterations , it stands today in the neo-gothic style .
once a year , vips from all over the world gather here in the historic coronation hall for the charlemagne prize ceremony .
this prize has been awarded annually since 1950 to honor people who have contributed to european unity .
former laureates include german chancellor angela merkel and british prime minister tony blair . technologically advanced aachen is not only a popular tourist city , but also an important technological and industrial center in germany .
it 's a place where engineering technology , automation technology , laser technology and environmental technology are developed , and it plays an important role in the region .
many companies , especially those in the automobile industry , work closely with the rwth - aachen 's university .
author : anna grabowski editor : greg wiser send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
www-links rwth university aachen the university 's website in english aachen tourist service the official city website in english feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live external links german student union : info for internationals daad scholarship database directory : german degree programs directory : german universities study in germany website dw-akademie starting november 1 , 2010 , applications are open for the international media studies master 's degree information for applicants become a fan follow deutsche welle on the online interactive platform facebook .
deutsche welle on fb word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week pulse taking the pulse of youth culture with music and what 's hot in the german music scene .
pulse hits in germany language learners want to learn german ?
dw has the tools to help beginners and advanced students alike .
learning german teaching german © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook energy researchers hope nuclear fusion reactors could put an end to the world 's energy problems .
endless energy health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
quiz take the quiz - win an ipad !
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bundeswehr recruits sworn in against backdrop of protest -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.08.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundeswehr -pipe- 30.07.2010 bundeswehr recruits sworn in against backdrop of protest großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friday 's oath was the first in stuttgart in 11 years police have dispersed one of a dozen anti-military protests in as army recruits take their oath in stuttgart for the first time in 11 years .
around 1,000 police are on the scene to ensure the safety of 650 new soldiers . police in the southwestern german city of stuttgart on friday dispersed a sit-down protest against the ceremonial pledge of allegiance taken by new german army , or bundeswehr , recruits .
just under 50 protesters sat down in front of the st. eberhard cathedral at midday but were not blocking the entrance to the church service for some 300 recruits and their families .
police defended their dispersal of the group , explaining that another location had been designated for the demonstration .
authorities had initially issued permits to 13 anti-military protest groups for friday but later revoked two of these .
about 1,000 police officers were dispatched to ensure the safety of a total of 650 recruits from southern germany . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : around a dozen protest groups were granted permits the need for security at friday 's event was already stressed last sunday morning when 15 demonstrators occupied the cathedral in protest against the mass .
stuttgart 's dean called the police to remove the protestors after telling them that the church was not the place for political action .
the recruits took their oaths at stuttgart 's new palace in what was the first public pledge of allegiance for bundeswehr soldiers in the city in 11 years . author : david levitz -lrb- dpa / kna -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de mother of killed soldier wants to take military to court the mother of a german soldier who died in afghanistan is seeking to sue the defense ministry and the bundeswehr - arguing that better equipment and training could have prevented her son 's death .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- germany mulls getting rid of compulsive military service the german bundestag is debating a proposal to decrease the length of mandatory military service in a bid to save money .
but if defense minister guttenberg has his way , the military draft could be scrapped altogether .
-lrb- 12.06.2010 -rrb- bundeswehr conscription acts as internship for military careers germany has decided to reduce the time of its mandatory military and civilian services .
one expert says the practice continues to exist because it is a primary recruitment tool to find future career soldiers .
-lrb- 18.05.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft - das wissenschaftsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- feedback are megacities monsters or marvels ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 environment the next round of global climate change talks kicks off in cancun at the end of the month .
dilip sinha , additional secretary at the indian foreign ministry , talks about the developing countries ' expectations of cancun human rights why are six countries not attending the nobel peace prize ceremony this year ?
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 19.11.10 burmese community in india has mixed feelings developing countries prepare for climate talks phnom penh gears up for water festival podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live politik direkt we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china flourishing relations beijing and riyadh have become increasingly close in recent years .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week aaron copland helped redefine american music listen live focus free at last focus on democracy : myanmar leader aung san suu kyi is free after seven years of house arrest .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live kyrgyzstan 's chaos kyrgyzstan goes to the polls on sunday but there are doubts that the outcome will ease the tensions .
watch the video taliban tactics nato convoys are increasingly coming under taliban attacks along the afghan-pakistani border watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
african aid germany has been slow to react to the way china and others are changing the rules on aid for africa .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with clarinettist martin fröst listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you agree that there is war in afghanistan because the international troops are there ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 author arundhati roy could face sedition charges over kashmir comments .
prashant bhushan , a senior lawyer at the indian supreme court , gives his views on the issue october asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 27.10.10 un secretary-general in cambodia new war of words between india and china could arundhati roy face sedition charges ?
podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien dw-tv europe live european journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
asia compact join us on facebook !
islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you agree that there is war in afghanistan because the international troops are there ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 reader response feedback on kashmir , korea and other issues our readers and asia compact listeners are passionate about sending in their views .
september asia quiz quiz of the month pakistan the catastrophe click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 23.09.10 india 's supreme court postpones ayodhya verdict complaints cast shadow over afghanistan 's elections cambodia 's main opposition leader sam rainsy sentenced to 10 years podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you agree that there is war in afghanistan because the international troops are there ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 interview suu kyi calls for more support from europe the burmese civil rights activist talks to dw in an exclusive interview .
december asia quiz quiz of the month exhibition celebrating indian waste collectors a young german photographer has focused on waste and waste collectors in india .
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 17.12.10 obama 's afpak strategy review japan revises security policy wikileaks reveals kashmir torture reports podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online asia compact join us on facebook !
fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
cairo crisis egypt 's military council has warned protesters it will move in to break up the demonstrations .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china flourishing relations beijing and riyadh have become increasingly close in recent years .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- feedback are megacities monsters or marvels ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 environment an indian ngo is distributing solar lanterns to villagers in the state of maharashtra .
jayant sarnaik from the applied enviromental research foundation talks about the project and the chances for renewable energies in rural india asia compact join us on facebook !
health the world health organization has published its first report on neglected tropical diseases .
dr. albis gabrielli at the who headquarters in geneva talks about neglected diseases in asia october asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 18.10.10 german foreign minister guido westerwelle in india conference in rome discusses afghanistan strategy solar lanterns for indian villagers podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- feedback are megacities monsters or marvels ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 asian development bank the adb is planning to rope in the private sector to cater to primary development needs by 2020 .
adb vice president lakshmi venkatachalam talks about her agenda in europe , private sector and development strategies pakistan the aftermath listen to the interview images from pakistan the catastrophe click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
september asia quiz quiz of the month asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact -lrb- 10.09.2010 -rrb- after the floods , eid is no more festive in nowshera the adb : new strategies for development lack of experts becomes a problem for ancient indian inscriptions .
ac 100910 asia compact sendung podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook energy researchers hope nuclear fusion reactors could put an end to the world 's energy problems .
endless energy health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
quiz take the quiz - win an ipad !
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think the us should do in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 interview suu kyi calls for more support from europe the burmese civil rights activist talks to dw in an exclusive interview .
december asia quiz quiz of the month exhibition celebrating indian waste collectors a young german photographer has focused on waste and waste collectors in india .
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 16.12.10 the access to those in need in afghanistan is at its worst chinese premier wen jiabao is walking a tightrope to islamabad photo exhibition in berlin shows pictures of indian garbage collectors podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online asia compact join us on facebook !
fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think the us should do in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 reader response feedback on kashmir , korea and other issues our readers and asia compact listeners are passionate about sending in their views .
september asia quiz quiz of the month pakistan the catastrophe click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 23.09.10 commonwealth games could turn into a major embarrassment for delhi new book by bob woodward exposes deep divisions in washington over afghanistan cologne exhibition takes a new look at china podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think the us should do in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 india-japan the indian pm is in japan for three days .
economic and civil nuclear cooperation are on the agenda .
dr alka acharya from the school of international studies at new delhi 's jawaharlal nehru university explains what singh ’ s visit means asia compact join us on facebook !
october asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 25.10.10 indian pm in japan interlocutors get icy welcome in kashmir valley south korea boosts tourism via formula one podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters us-pakistan maplecroft has published a climate change vulnerability index , topped by bangladesh and india .
fiona place , an enviromental analyst at maplecroft , and talked about the factors which were taken into consideration in preparing the list .
fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
international relations great game as international troops withdraw from afghanistan , islamabad is concerned for the future .
international relations flourishing relations beijing and riyadh have become increasingly close in recent years .
dw-tv europe live drive it ! - the motor magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de peacekeeping -pipe- 30.07.2010 hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the somali police were trained in ethiopia , funded by germany almost 1,000 somali police have gone missing after their training was financed by the german government .
it is feared these officers will now join forces with the islamist militants al-shabaab . in september 2009 , the german government released $ 1 million -lrb- 760,000 euros -rrb- of funding to train somali police officers .
the training took place in ethiopia , and the new recruits were equipped with uniforms , weapons and knowledge with the aim of sending them back into somalia to try and keep peace in the fractured country .
two months after the completion of this training , almost 1,000 new police officers have reportedly disappeared en route to the somali capital mogadishu .
it is thought highly likely that these deserters have left to join opposition islamist militia in somalia .
in a statement , the german foreign office confirmed that funds were released to train somali police , and that in may 2010 , 925 trained officers were transported to somalia under ethiopian surveillance .
they did not comment on whether the police had deserted or not .
' training the opposition ' currently , the transitional somali government is struggling to suppress the militia , including al-qaeda sympathisers al-shabaab , who control as much as two-thirds of the country .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opposition militia control two-thirds of somalia germany is one of several countries who have committed to training security personnel as in indirect method of trying to help , without military intervention .
however , according to ulrich delius from the society for threatened peoples , the problem is that most of these newly trained recruits " leave after a few months " to go and work for the armed opposition .
" you have to ensure that these people really stay in the official army or police , " delius told deutsche welle .
" otherwise you are just training the people you will be fighting in a few months . "
a report published by the head of the un monitoring group on somalia , dumisani kumalo in 2008 , said 80 percent of trained security officers deserted their posts , taking with them their weapons , uniforms and the acquired knowledge .
reasons for desertion at a time when the transitional government is barely keeping a hold on the north of somalia , deserters may feel they are better off siding with the militants than the government .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : weapons have become valuable commodities " no one is sure who will be the government of tomorrow … so they are switching to survive , " delius said .
" also , you need a weapon and whether you get it from the police or from the armed opposition , it does not matter . "
he added that money was another strong incentive for joining the militants , as " somali warlords often offer more money than the official army or police . "
in this case , german media reports that the somali police were waiting for their pay from the german government before they disappeared .
another reason for discontent may be due to the fact that the training took place in ethiopia – a country with a long , bloody history with somalia .
" there 's a very strong feeling against ethiopia in all parts of somali society , " said delius .
stabilization the german government has come under fire for not only partnering with ethiopia , but also according to some sources , bypassing the correct united nations procedures and ignoring sanctions against somalia .
however , the foreign ministry said in a statement that it had informed both the un contact group on somalia and the un sanctions committee .
in recent weeks , the government has reconfirmed its commitment to aiding somalia , most recently at the african union summit in kampala .
german foreign minister guido westerwelle said that the training of police in somalia was a " substantial contribution " to stabilizing the country .
ulrich delius argues however that all the projects for training security forces will continue to have no effect until politicians start to " understand the root of the problems in somalia . "
author : catherine bolsover editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de somalia taking center stage at african union summit somalia is once again dominating the agenda at the biannual summit of african leaders .
experts agree that the tactics need to change in somalia in order for peace to return to the country .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- investigation opens into german mercenaries in somalia the public prosecutor in the german city of muenster has opened an investigation into reports that a german security firm is sending mercenaries to a somali warlord amid concerns the deal violates un sanctions .
-lrb- 26.05.2010 -rrb- experts say west needs to change half-hearted approach to somalia a conference on somalia is being convened by the united nations in istanbul with the aim of showing support for the somali people .
but observers say the west 's half-hearted approach is doing more harm than good .
-lrb- 21.05.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de peacekeeping -pipe- 30.07.2010 hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the somali police were trained in ethiopia , funded by germany almost 1,000 somali police have gone missing after their training was financed by the german government .
it is feared these officers will now join forces with the islamist militants al-shabaab . in september 2009 , the german government released $ 1 million -lrb- 760,000 euros -rrb- of funding to train somali police officers .
the training took place in ethiopia , and the new recruits were equipped with uniforms , weapons and knowledge with the aim of sending them back into somalia to try and keep peace in the fractured country .
two months after the completion of this training , almost 1,000 new police officers have reportedly disappeared en route to the somali capital mogadishu .
it is thought highly likely that these deserters have left to join opposition islamist militia in somalia .
in a statement , the german foreign office confirmed that funds were released to train somali police , and that in may 2010 , 925 trained officers were transported to somalia under ethiopian surveillance .
they did not comment on whether the police had deserted or not .
' training the opposition ' currently , the transitional somali government is struggling to suppress the militia , including al-qaeda sympathisers al-shabaab , who control as much as two-thirds of the country .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opposition militia control two-thirds of somalia germany is one of several countries who have committed to training security personnel as in indirect method of trying to help , without military intervention .
however , according to ulrich delius from the society for threatened peoples , the problem is that most of these newly trained recruits " leave after a few months " to go and work for the armed opposition .
" you have to ensure that these people really stay in the official army or police , " delius told deutsche welle .
" otherwise you are just training the people you will be fighting in a few months . "
a report published by the head of the un monitoring group on somalia , dumisani kumalo in 2008 , said 80 percent of trained security officers deserted their posts , taking with them their weapons , uniforms and the acquired knowledge .
reasons for desertion at a time when the transitional government is barely keeping a hold on the north of somalia , deserters may feel they are better off siding with the militants than the government .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : weapons have become valuable commodities " no one is sure who will be the government of tomorrow … so they are switching to survive , " delius said .
" also , you need a weapon and whether you get it from the police or from the armed opposition , it does not matter . "
he added that money was another strong incentive for joining the militants , as " somali warlords often offer more money than the official army or police . "
in this case , german media reports that the somali police were waiting for their pay from the german government before they disappeared .
another reason for discontent may be due to the fact that the training took place in ethiopia – a country with a long , bloody history with somalia .
" there 's a very strong feeling against ethiopia in all parts of somali society , " said delius .
stabilization the german government has come under fire for not only partnering with ethiopia , but also according to some sources , bypassing the correct united nations procedures and ignoring sanctions against somalia .
however , the foreign ministry said in a statement that it had informed both the un contact group on somalia and the un sanctions committee .
in recent weeks , the government has reconfirmed its commitment to aiding somalia , most recently at the african union summit in kampala .
german foreign minister guido westerwelle said that the training of police in somalia was a " substantial contribution " to stabilizing the country .
ulrich delius argues however that all the projects for training security forces will continue to have no effect until politicians start to " understand the root of the problems in somalia . "
author : catherine bolsover editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de somalia taking center stage at african union summit somalia is once again dominating the agenda at the biannual summit of african leaders .
experts agree that the tactics need to change in somalia in order for peace to return to the country .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- investigation opens into german mercenaries in somalia the public prosecutor in the german city of muenster has opened an investigation into reports that a german security firm is sending mercenaries to a somali warlord amid concerns the deal violates un sanctions .
-lrb- 26.05.2010 -rrb- experts say west needs to change half-hearted approach to somalia a conference on somalia is being convened by the united nations in istanbul with the aim of showing support for the somali people .
but observers say the west 's half-hearted approach is doing more harm than good .
-lrb- 21.05.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think training somali police will help restore order ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de peacekeeping -pipe- 30.07.2010 hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the somali police were trained in ethiopia , funded by germany almost 1,000 somali police have gone missing after their training was financed by the german government .
it is feared these officers will now join forces with the islamist militants al-shabaab . in september 2009 , the german government released $ 1 million -lrb- 760,000 euros -rrb- of funding to train somali police officers .
the training took place in ethiopia , and the new recruits were equipped with uniforms , weapons and knowledge with the aim of sending them back into somalia to try and keep peace in the fractured country .
two months after the completion of this training , almost 1,000 new police officers have reportedly disappeared en route to the somali capital mogadishu .
it is thought highly likely that these deserters have left to join opposition islamist militia in somalia .
in a statement , the german foreign office confirmed that funds were released to train somali police , and that in may 2010 , 925 trained officers were transported to somalia under ethiopian surveillance .
they did not comment on whether the police had deserted or not .
' training the opposition ' currently , the transitional somali government is struggling to suppress the militia , including al-qaeda sympathisers al-shabaab , who control as much as two-thirds of the country .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opposition militia control two-thirds of somalia germany is one of several countries who have committed to training security personnel as in indirect method of trying to help , without military intervention .
however , according to ulrich delius from the society for threatened peoples , the problem is that most of these newly trained recruits " leave after a few months " to go and work for the armed opposition .
" you have to ensure that these people really stay in the official army or police , " delius told deutsche welle .
" otherwise you are just training the people you will be fighting in a few months . "
a report published by the head of the un monitoring group on somalia , dumisani kumalo in 2008 , said 80 percent of trained security officers deserted their posts , taking with them their weapons , uniforms and the acquired knowledge .
reasons for desertion at a time when the transitional government is barely keeping a hold on the north of somalia , deserters may feel they are better off siding with the militants than the government .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : weapons have become valuable commodities " no one is sure who will be the government of tomorrow … so they are switching to survive , " delius said .
" also , you need a weapon and whether you get it from the police or from the armed opposition , it does not matter . "
he added that money was another strong incentive for joining the militants , as " somali warlords often offer more money than the official army or police . "
in this case , german media reports that the somali police were waiting for their pay from the german government before they disappeared .
another reason for discontent may be due to the fact that the training took place in ethiopia – a country with a long , bloody history with somalia .
" there 's a very strong feeling against ethiopia in all parts of somali society , " said delius .
stabilization the german government has come under fire for not only partnering with ethiopia , but also according to some sources , bypassing the correct united nations procedures and ignoring sanctions against somalia .
however , the foreign ministry said in a statement that it had informed both the un contact group on somalia and the un sanctions committee .
in recent weeks , the government has reconfirmed its commitment to aiding somalia , most recently at the african union summit in kampala .
german foreign minister guido westerwelle said that the training of police in somalia was a " substantial contribution " to stabilizing the country .
ulrich delius argues however that all the projects for training security forces will continue to have no effect until politicians start to " understand the root of the problems in somalia . "
author : catherine bolsover editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de somalia taking center stage at african union summit somalia is once again dominating the agenda at the biannual summit of african leaders .
experts agree that the tactics need to change in somalia in order for peace to return to the country .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- investigation opens into german mercenaries in somalia the public prosecutor in the german city of muenster has opened an investigation into reports that a german security firm is sending mercenaries to a somali warlord amid concerns the deal violates un sanctions .
-lrb- 26.05.2010 -rrb- experts say west needs to change half-hearted approach to somalia a conference on somalia is being convened by the united nations in istanbul with the aim of showing support for the somali people .
but observers say the west 's half-hearted approach is doing more harm than good .
-lrb- 21.05.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think training somali police will help restore order ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 30.07.2010 nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : each of president goodluck jonathan 's posts draw between 1,000 and 2,000 comments president goodluck jonathan has attracted over 144,000 facebook fans in just a few short weeks , and he writes his own posts every day , in english , drawing thousands of comments . last week , facebook announced that it had passed 500 million member mark .
but one of its newer members is nigerian president goodluck jonathan , who is posting up a storm on his facebook page .
over 144,000 people have said that they like his facebook page , where he posts in english about his daily political activities .
president jonathan is more popular on facebook than german chancellor angela merkel , who only has around 42,000 fans , but still significantly trails the world ’ s most popular online politician , barack obama , who has over 11.5 million fans .
online nigerians seem to be very excited at their president ’ s adoption of the popular social networking site as he seems to be riding the wave of increasing popularity for the site in nigeria .
" this is a real change , but a good change , " said a woman in an internet café in sokoto in northwestern nigeria .
" it allows all of nigeria the ability to give their opinions directly to the politicians .
when there are problems , then they can set them straight .
before the president there were already a few other politicians on facebook .
they give their opinions on various topics , just like we do , without being afraid of being arrested .
this reduces the gulf between the politicians and the people . "
already , around one million nigerians have signed up for facebook .
with that kind of audience , the social networking site has become very attractive to many politicians .
they see it as a way to get into discussions with their fellow countrymen , and as a way to air their thoughts and hopefully , to build support .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president jonathan has over 144,000 fans on facebook facebook has influenced political decisions yakuba musa , who works on the nigerian president 's public relations team , describes the first facebook day as a huge success .
and though he helped initiate that idea , he says he ’ s not the one writing the president ’ s posts .
" the president does it himself , " he told deutsche welle .
" and if you look at it , it has been influencing some of the decisions that he has been taking , for example , the nigerian football association .
the president reversed his decision -lrb- to ban the team from international play over their poor world cup performance -rrb- and subsequently , on the website he said that he based his decision on some comments that he got from nigerians . "
jonathan does n't only write about soccer .
he discusses other things that have been troubling his people for a long time : the inconsistent and insufficient electricity production , say , or environmental problems in the niger delta .
and it seems the nigerians have taken to the idea of a conversation with their head of state .
each entry by the president quickly attracts between 1,500 and 2,000 comments .
at the same internet cafe in sokoto , abdurrahman mohammed is also excited about the new opportunities the web has brought .
" i opened a facebook page because i saw how many other people were getting on the social network , " he said .
" i can use facebook to let people know what i think .
and i hope i can do my bit to make so many things in my country and the world better .
i think what our president has done is great .
it 's good for all nigerians . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : of nigeria 's 11 million internet users , only around one million of them are on facebook muslim leaders also seek new followers on facebook and it is n't just politicians and regular citizens in nigeria who have discovered the internet and social networks .
muslim imams are also trying to gain new followers by using facebook .
usman aliyu is one of them .
he uses facebook as a platform to discuss religious and social issues .
" i opened a facebook page because i want to know how people act within the social network , " he said .
" we ’ ve seen that many young people are very active on facebook .
so we use that as a way to show how religious concepts and the correct way of acting applies to their daily lives , " he explained .
lawal aliyu is exactly the kind of person the imam is targeting , but he does n't have time for what he sees as small ideas .
to him facebook is more about getting out into the world .
" facebook is a website where people can give their opinions or discuss problems , " he said .
" in our country , people often do n't always have courage to say what they think in public .
but on facebook they can write what they want .
the whole world can see it , react to it and make suggestions . "
author : mohammad awal -lrb- cf -rrb- editor : ranjitha balasubramanyam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german officials charge facebook with privacy violations german data protection officials go after facebook for storing personal data of non-users .
meanwhile , another official advocates creating a smartphone app for users to track personal information gathered about them .
-lrb- 08.07.2010 -rrb- nigerian president 's death could trigger sectarian violence nigerian president umaru yar 'adua has died following a long illness that had sparked a leadership crisis in the country .
analysts expect his succession to be the most hotly contested since nigeria 's return to democracy .
-lrb- 06.05.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic nigerian president interacts with citizens on facebook 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 30.07.2010 nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : each of president goodluck jonathan 's posts draw between 1,000 and 2,000 comments president goodluck jonathan has attracted over 144,000 facebook fans in just a few short weeks , and he writes his own posts every day , in english , drawing thousands of comments . last week , facebook announced that it had passed 500 million member mark .
but one of its newer members is nigerian president goodluck jonathan , who is posting up a storm on his facebook page .
over 144,000 people have said that they like his facebook page , where he posts in english about his daily political activities .
president jonathan is more popular on facebook than german chancellor angela merkel , who only has around 42,000 fans , but still significantly trails the world ’ s most popular online politician , barack obama , who has over 11.5 million fans .
online nigerians seem to be very excited at their president ’ s adoption of the popular social networking site as he seems to be riding the wave of increasing popularity for the site in nigeria .
" this is a real change , but a good change , " said a woman in an internet café in sokoto in northwestern nigeria .
" it allows all of nigeria the ability to give their opinions directly to the politicians .
when there are problems , then they can set them straight .
before the president there were already a few other politicians on facebook .
they give their opinions on various topics , just like we do , without being afraid of being arrested .
this reduces the gulf between the politicians and the people . "
already , around one million nigerians have signed up for facebook .
with that kind of audience , the social networking site has become very attractive to many politicians .
they see it as a way to get into discussions with their fellow countrymen , and as a way to air their thoughts and hopefully , to build support .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president jonathan has over 144,000 fans on facebook facebook has influenced political decisions yakuba musa , who works on the nigerian president 's public relations team , describes the first facebook day as a huge success .
and though he helped initiate that idea , he says he ’ s not the one writing the president ’ s posts .
" the president does it himself , " he told deutsche welle .
" and if you look at it , it has been influencing some of the decisions that he has been taking , for example , the nigerian football association .
the president reversed his decision -lrb- to ban the team from international play over their poor world cup performance -rrb- and subsequently , on the website he said that he based his decision on some comments that he got from nigerians . "
jonathan does n't only write about soccer .
he discusses other things that have been troubling his people for a long time : the inconsistent and insufficient electricity production , say , or environmental problems in the niger delta .
and it seems the nigerians have taken to the idea of a conversation with their head of state .
each entry by the president quickly attracts between 1,500 and 2,000 comments .
at the same internet cafe in sokoto , abdurrahman mohammed is also excited about the new opportunities the web has brought .
" i opened a facebook page because i saw how many other people were getting on the social network , " he said .
" i can use facebook to let people know what i think .
and i hope i can do my bit to make so many things in my country and the world better .
i think what our president has done is great .
it 's good for all nigerians . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : of nigeria 's 11 million internet users , only around one million of them are on facebook muslim leaders also seek new followers on facebook and it is n't just politicians and regular citizens in nigeria who have discovered the internet and social networks .
muslim imams are also trying to gain new followers by using facebook .
usman aliyu is one of them .
he uses facebook as a platform to discuss religious and social issues .
" i opened a facebook page because i want to know how people act within the social network , " he said .
" we ’ ve seen that many young people are very active on facebook .
so we use that as a way to show how religious concepts and the correct way of acting applies to their daily lives , " he explained .
lawal aliyu is exactly the kind of person the imam is targeting , but he does n't have time for what he sees as small ideas .
to him facebook is more about getting out into the world .
" facebook is a website where people can give their opinions or discuss problems , " he said .
" in our country , people often do n't always have courage to say what they think in public .
but on facebook they can write what they want .
the whole world can see it , react to it and make suggestions . "
author : mohammad awal -lrb- cf -rrb- editor : ranjitha balasubramanyam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german officials charge facebook with privacy violations german data protection officials go after facebook for storing personal data of non-users .
meanwhile , another official advocates creating a smartphone app for users to track personal information gathered about them .
-lrb- 08.07.2010 -rrb- nigerian president 's death could trigger sectarian violence nigerian president umaru yar 'adua has died following a long illness that had sparked a leadership crisis in the country .
analysts expect his succession to be the most hotly contested since nigeria 's return to democracy .
-lrb- 06.05.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic nigerian president interacts with citizens on facebook feedback do you think politicians should be on facebook ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us group pressures deutsche bank to maintain rundown properties -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de housing -pipe- 30.07.2010 us group pressures deutsche bank to maintain rundown properties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : homes values in the sherman park area of milwaukee has fallen substantially the financial crisis has left thousands of homes vacant in the us city of milwaukee .
residents there are placing part of the blame for the mess at deutsche bank 's door . the people of milwaukee are proud of their city .
they enjoy its proximity to lake michigan , an abundance of parks and high-class restaurants .
but the financial crisis has hit the wisconsin city hard .
thousands of houses have been foreclosed , their owners evicted because they could no longer repay their loans . for the people in the sherman park neighborhood , the crisis is a nightmare that 's turned the area around their homes into a wasteland .
a shop named " milk and honey " is located on 51st street , but the fact is there has n't been anything sweet or creamy about this part of the city since the beginning of the financial crisis . " i feel like i need to leave , " said dolly turnbull , who has lived in sherman park for 31 years .
" but i ca n't because that 's exactly what 's going to make it fall apart . " widespread disrepair bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : giaimo said deutsche bank is partly responsible for the state of homes in sherman park drug dealers have moved into some of the rundown properties .
many streets have fallen into disrepair , and half the homes are empty .
one of the houses covered in graffiti .
" get money , " it says on the wall .
the paper boy still delivers free newspapers to the house , but with no one there to collect them they pile up on the porch .
this property was once worth $ 100,000 -lrb- 76,550 euros -rrb- .
with almost the whole street in bad shape , the price is down to $ 10,000 . until three months ago , it did n't look as if anything were about to change .
but that 's when the people of milwaukee shifted their gaze from their own streets to far-way germany .
they accused germany 's biggest bank , deutsche bank , of being responsible for a large part of the mess .
it 's ironic , they said , given that it was mostly german immigrants who settled in milwaukee back in the 1840s . susan giaimo , a milwaukee professor in political science , travelled to frankfurt in may .
she wanted to stir things up on deutsche bank 's home turf . " deutsche bank is destroying milwaukee homes , " she said .
" germany built milwaukee and now a german bank is destroying milwaukee homes . " deutsche bank 's role in housing crisis bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of homes have been foreclosed on giaimo works with the community organization named common ground of wisconsin .
deutsche bank is much more involved in the housing crisis than it likes to admit , according to the group .
the company bought up large packages of mortgages and resold them for a profit , and it serves as trustee for thousands of milwaukee homes - many of which have been foreclosed on or are considered at-risk .
according to deutsche bank , the company is trustee of 1 million houses across the united states .
that makes deutsche bank accountable for what is happening with the houses , according to common ground . " the banks made money on these subprime mortgages and we want them to take responsibility , " giaimo said . but deutsche bank said there is not much it can do to improve the situation in the perplexing us mortgage market .
the market is made up investors that buy large packages of mortgages .
then there are trustees that administer these packages .
and there are servicers that collect the payments from the house owners and have to take care of foreclosed homes . as trustee , deutsche bank has said it is not directly involved in what happens to the properties .
a spokesperson told deutsche welle it would be illegal for the bank to interfere too much with the operations of other companies involved in the properties ' management .
deutsche bank 's role is , therefore , an administrative one , the spokesman added . but that 's difficult to explain to people receiving foreclosure orders bearing the deutsche bank logo .
it 's the german company that legally owns the loans . trash , grass and broken windows bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : deutsche bank said it would talk to mortgage services about the problem in wisconsin at a meeting in july , the city of milwaukee tried to sort things out .
all major banks came to the city hall - including deutsche bank . listing thousands of violations , city officials said the servicers are doing a lousy job maintaining the properties they are meant to be taking care of .
trash is littered through the high grass and broken windows abound .
the properties with the highest number of violations were managed in deutsche bank trusts .
" we 're not asking too much of the financial institutions , " alderman michael murphy said .
" the united states government helped bailout banks and now local government is bailing them out in maintaining their properties .
this is not acceptable . " deutsche bank has promised to talk to the servicers and ask them to improve the job they are doing .
the bank also agreed to discuss plans to invest in milwaukee . the city has given deutsche bank and its competitors six weeks to lift its game .
otherwise it will consider legal action . author : benjamin hammer editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de top german banker found guilty of market manipulation the former chief of german bank ikb has been found guilty of market manipulation and given a 10-month suspended sentence .
he was also given a hefty fine for misstating investment risks .
-lrb- 14.07.2010 -rrb- us probe looks into international banks and ratings agencies , reports say new york 's attorney general has begun investigating eight banks , including deutsche bank , on their relationships with ratings agencies .
-lrb- 13.05.2010 -rrb- deutsche bank reveals uk bonus tax , posts profits deutsche bank ceo josef ackermann said the bank has set aside 225 million euros -lrb- $ 314 million -rrb- to pay a one-off uk tax on bankers ' bonuses .
he also said he expects industry pay to decline in coming years .
-lrb- 06.02.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic milwaukee homeowners call on deutsche bank to stop urban decay 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1937 : " guernica " exhibited for the first time dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kremlin human rights adviser quits amidst retrograde rights climate -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 30.07.2010 kremlin human rights adviser quits amidst retrograde rights climate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pamfilova had grown tired of being persecuted the kremlin 's top human rights adviser has stepped down in the face of hostility from a pro-kremlin , nationalist youth group .
ella pamfilova had fought to make russia more just , but often came up against a brick wall . the chairman of russia 's presidential council on human rights resigned friday in a move widely seen as a protest against the deteriorating rights situation in russia . ella pamfilova , the activist who chaired president dmitry medvedev 's council on human rights and oversaw the development of civil society , resigned amidst heavy fire from the nashi nationalist youth group , as well as strong disagreement with medvedev 's human rights policies . " she wanted to resign because she had simply had enough of the persecution that was circling around her , " pamfilova 's fellow council member , irina yasina , told the interfax news agency . accused of slander the pro-kremlin youth movement nashi had threatened to sue pamfilova for slander after she criticized the group for an exhibition staged at its annual summer camp on lake seliger . the exhibition featured images of the heads of russian liberal leaders , such as 83-year-old human-rights activist lyudmila alexeyeva , stuck on stakes in nazi helmets . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the naschi youth group welcomed pamfilova 's resignation when images of the exhibition surfaced after president medvedev 's visit to the camp , pamfilova told the echo of moscow radio station she was " frightened " to realize " that these guys will come to power in a number of years . " " that will be terrible , " she said , adding , " that is intolerable - more so because the president has been there , at seliger . "
pamfilova , it seems , saw no way to continue working for the kremlin , which lends its full moral support to the nashi youth group .
she also accused the movement of burning books . " as chairman of the council , unfortunately i do not know what to do about this , apart from speak out and say that this is an outrage .
if these cynical guys who do n't care about anything , allow themselves anything , persecute people , because they know that adult men in high positions protect them , then that is terrible for the country , " she warned . ' men in high positions ' the day before pamfilova 's resignation , medvedev signed legislation to strengthen the fsb , the kgb 's secret-service successor - a move pamfilova 's council deemed the " rebirth of the unlawful and worst practices of a totalitarian state , with the goal of seeding fear and mistrust in the people . " she did not give specific reasons for her resignation , but said she planned to change her " sphere of activity " and that it would " definitely not be politics or state service . " pamfilova said that her decision to leave her post was not taken overnight . the activist had told european union officials in march that russia 's democratic institutions were underdeveloped and that there had been no significant progress in civil rights . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : activists had hoped medvedev would improve russia 's human rights the kremlin suggested in a statement to reporters that pamfilova 's departure was long in coming . " this is not the first time that this issue has appeared , " said medvedev 's spokeswoman natalya timakova . human rights groups have expressed their deep regret at pamfilova 's departure .
author : geert groot koerkamp -lrb- dl / ap / afp / reuters -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de russian upper house increases kgb successor 's power , to activists ' dismay president medvedev 's bill to increase secret police powers has won parliament 's approval .
human rights activists fear the government may use the law against the opposition , returning to a soviet-style police state .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- chechen activists still live in fear a year after colleague 's murder one year ago , one of chechnya 's best-known human rights activists was mysteriously abducted and murdered .
natalya estemirova 's death is still fresh in the minds of her colleagues , who fear it could happen again .
-lrb- 15.07.2010 -rrb- sakharov prize winner calls on eu to put more pressure on russia one of the leaders of the human rights group memorial used his acceptance speech for the sakharov prize in the european parliament to call on the european union to put more pressure on russia .
-lrb- 16.12.2009 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink news and perspectives from the heart of europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
panini albums women 's soccer gets its first panini albums , forty years after the sticker-collecting hobby began .
watch the video education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- feedback are megacities monsters or marvels ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 january asia quiz quiz of the month north korea us envoy stephen bosworth is hopeful six-nation talks can resume soon .
ruediger frank , an expert on korean politics at the university of vienna , explains why all sides are suddenly talking peace and dialogue again asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 05.01.11 pakistani religious leaders warn people grieving for slain punjab governor will meet same fate study says us supplies more arms to dictatorships than china does punjabi weddings don a corporate look podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live global 3000 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
9/11 anniversary your memories how did 9/11 change your thoughts or worldview ?
send a text or photos to dw .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you agree that there is war in afghanistan because the international troops are there ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 uzbekistan human rights organizations have slammed the eu for hosting uzbek president islam karimov .
andrew stroehlein , of international crisis group , says the eu does n't have a clear policy regarding central asian dictators korean peninsula north korean defectors want more active role s korea has agreed to hold high-level talks with the north , marking a breakthrough in the crisis .
january asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 26.01.11 afghan president hamid karzai inaugurates new parliament rights organizations criticize eu for hosting uzbek president survey finds nine out of 10 cambodian farmers suffer from pesticide poisoning podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
naked lunch , berlin style -pipe- culture column -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de culture -pipe- 30.07.2010 naked lunch , berlin style großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for some berliners , summer means ditching the clothes and strutting around without a care in the world .
there 's nothing wrong with that per se , but for bashful ex-pat brits , it can be a truly miserable experience . i recall one summer a couple of years ago lying in the grass in berlin 's tiergarten park , enjoying the fragrant breeze on my face , the warm smell of fresh summer grass and the playful twitter of birds in the trees .
my meditations were disrupted by a male voice asking , " have you got a light ? " i awoke from my daydream and looked up to see a rather hefty middle-aged man sporting at least five bellies standing above me holding a cigarette .
nothing unusual in this you might think - except he was stark naked .
i coughed and spluttered for a moment , rather bashfully rummaged through my bag and held out a lighter in his vague direction while suddenly becoming most interested in intently studying the daisy to my left . after lighting his cigarette , this colossal lump of nakedness then saw fit to stand there for a further 10 minutes discussing the weather .
given that it is rather rude not to make eye contact with someone with whom you are engaged in conversation , i did rather feel obliged to cast the occasional furtive glance in his direction .
however , given that i was lying in the grass and he was standing above me , all i ever seemed to make eye contact with was his looming collection of dangly bits and pieces .
most disturbing . this bold example of nakedness is known as fkk - freikoerperkultur , or naked body culture - and your average german does n't have a problem with it .
even if they themselves do n't strut around in their birthday suit all summer , they seldom seem to notice , much less comment on , other people 's nakedness .
at this time of year , when the temperature has risen at least four million degrees , most berliners are launching themselves into the nearest body of water .
and a good number do so without a stitch on . visit one of berlin 's many lakes -lrb- or indeed some parks -rrb- and thrown into the mix of bathers wearing sensible swimwear , you 'll also see mountains of naked flesh .
some lakes and beaches have designated nudist areas while many others are mixed .
of course this open attitude to nudity in germany is a very healthy one ; small children can splash about in the lake with no clothes on without their parents fearing that a paedophile will jump out from behind the nearest bush while granny and grandpa can enjoy an early evening dip au naturelle quite content with each others ' sagging bodies . bildunterschrift : germans in touch with nature in the 1970s ... brits should enter at their own risk the first fkk club was founded in essen in 1898 with the first nudist beach -lrb- on sylt -rrb- welcoming naked bathers in 1920 .
while attitudes to fkk became increasingly conservative in west germany throughout the 70s and 80s , their east german counterparts still revelled in the feeling of freedom that comes with prancing around in the sun with all their bits and pieces jiggling about .
it has absolutely nothing to do with sex and more to do with man in touch with nature ... or such other primitive nonsense . of course , as a brit , while i find the concept of fkk harmless , in practice it is highly embarrassing .
we have no culture of public displays of nudity in the uk unless you can class the occasional streaker at a cricket match in the 1970s as a healthy display of fkk .
on the contrary , nudity is something to be sniggered at by the prudish brits .
after all , we grew up with benny hill and the carry on films ; types of comedy which taught us that big wobbly breasts were hilarious and the word " knickers " among the funniest in the language . a friend of mine once admonished me for hiding behind a newspaper when some naked swimmers walked past with the rather flimsy justification that " the ducks are naked and that does n't embarrass you . "
no dear , but then again , when was the last time you saw a duck waddling down the street in a three-piece suit ? with this summer being hotter than ever , more and more berliners are trekking to the shady tranquility of the city 's lakes with a good proportion content to do so with no clothes on whatsoever .
next time you 're there , take a break from casting a peep at the naked breasts beside you and indulge in some brit spotting instead ; they 're the ones tittering and spluttering behind their sandwiches at the sight of someone 's bottom . neale lytollis still enjoys a swim at the lake ... dressed in sensible trousers , a duffel coat and balaclava . editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last week 's column when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- swiss want to do away with bare sightings one wild beast the swiss do n't want to see swinging down the trail towards them is a naked german hiker .
-lrb- 10.02.2009 -rrb- east germany 's fascination with flesh gets more exposure a new book detailing east germany 's passion for nudity is set to be launched in typically candid style just weeks after a documentary exposed the communist regime 's secret porn industry .
-lrb- 28.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic visit the world 's largest nudist colony in southern france dw-radio : inside europe www-links missed a ' scene in berlin ' ?
read past editions here feedback does public nudity make you blush or are you a carefree fkk fanatic ?
send us an e-mail with your opinion !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live tomorrow today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live social media become a fan follow deutsche welle on the online interactive platform facebook .
word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view link berlin culture crawl blogger lily philipose bases each post on conversations with berliners on what they 're up to . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
naked lunch , berlin style -pipe- culture column -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de culture -pipe- 30.07.2010 naked lunch , berlin style großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for some berliners , summer means ditching the clothes and strutting around without a care in the world .
there 's nothing wrong with that per se , but for bashful ex-pat brits , it can be a truly miserable experience . i recall one summer a couple of years ago lying in the grass in berlin 's tiergarten park , enjoying the fragrant breeze on my face , the warm smell of fresh summer grass and the playful twitter of birds in the trees .
my meditations were disrupted by a male voice asking , " have you got a light ? " i awoke from my daydream and looked up to see a rather hefty middle-aged man sporting at least five bellies standing above me holding a cigarette .
nothing unusual in this you might think - except he was stark naked .
i coughed and spluttered for a moment , rather bashfully rummaged through my bag and held out a lighter in his vague direction while suddenly becoming most interested in intently studying the daisy to my left . after lighting his cigarette , this colossal lump of nakedness then saw fit to stand there for a further 10 minutes discussing the weather .
given that it is rather rude not to make eye contact with someone with whom you are engaged in conversation , i did rather feel obliged to cast the occasional furtive glance in his direction .
however , given that i was lying in the grass and he was standing above me , all i ever seemed to make eye contact with was his looming collection of dangly bits and pieces .
most disturbing . this bold example of nakedness is known as fkk - freikoerperkultur , or naked body culture - and your average german does n't have a problem with it .
even if they themselves do n't strut around in their birthday suit all summer , they seldom seem to notice , much less comment on , other people 's nakedness .
at this time of year , when the temperature has risen at least four million degrees , most berliners are launching themselves into the nearest body of water .
and a good number do so without a stitch on . visit one of berlin 's many lakes -lrb- or indeed some parks -rrb- and thrown into the mix of bathers wearing sensible swimwear , you 'll also see mountains of naked flesh .
some lakes and beaches have designated nudist areas while many others are mixed .
of course this open attitude to nudity in germany is a very healthy one ; small children can splash about in the lake with no clothes on without their parents fearing that a paedophile will jump out from behind the nearest bush while granny and grandpa can enjoy an early evening dip au naturelle quite content with each others ' sagging bodies . bildunterschrift : germans in touch with nature in the 1970s ... brits should enter at their own risk the first fkk club was founded in essen in 1898 with the first nudist beach -lrb- on sylt -rrb- welcoming naked bathers in 1920 .
while attitudes to fkk became increasingly conservative in west germany throughout the 70s and 80s , their east german counterparts still revelled in the feeling of freedom that comes with prancing around in the sun with all their bits and pieces jiggling about .
it has absolutely nothing to do with sex and more to do with man in touch with nature ... or such other primitive nonsense . of course , as a brit , while i find the concept of fkk harmless , in practice it is highly embarrassing .
we have no culture of public displays of nudity in the uk unless you can class the occasional streaker at a cricket match in the 1970s as a healthy display of fkk .
on the contrary , nudity is something to be sniggered at by the prudish brits .
after all , we grew up with benny hill and the carry on films ; types of comedy which taught us that big wobbly breasts were hilarious and the word " knickers " among the funniest in the language . a friend of mine once admonished me for hiding behind a newspaper when some naked swimmers walked past with the rather flimsy justification that " the ducks are naked and that does n't embarrass you . "
no dear , but then again , when was the last time you saw a duck waddling down the street in a three-piece suit ? with this summer being hotter than ever , more and more berliners are trekking to the shady tranquility of the city 's lakes with a good proportion content to do so with no clothes on whatsoever .
next time you 're there , take a break from casting a peep at the naked breasts beside you and indulge in some brit spotting instead ; they 're the ones tittering and spluttering behind their sandwiches at the sight of someone 's bottom . neale lytollis still enjoys a swim at the lake ... dressed in sensible trousers , a duffel coat and balaclava . editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last week 's column when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- swiss want to do away with bare sightings one wild beast the swiss do n't want to see swinging down the trail towards them is a naked german hiker .
-lrb- 10.02.2009 -rrb- east germany 's fascination with flesh gets more exposure a new book detailing east germany 's passion for nudity is set to be launched in typically candid style just weeks after a documentary exposed the communist regime 's secret porn industry .
-lrb- 28.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic visit the world 's largest nudist colony in southern france dw-radio : inside europe www-links missed a ' scene in berlin ' ?
read past editions here feedback does public nudity make you blush or are you a carefree fkk fanatic ?
send us an e-mail with your opinion !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live partner npr berlin national public radio provides noncommercial news , talk , and entertainment from the us .
social media become a fan follow deutsche welle on the online interactive platform facebook .
word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view link berlin culture crawl blogger lily philipose bases each post on conversations with berliners on what they 're up to . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
naked lunch , berlin style -pipe- culture column -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de culture -pipe- 30.07.2010 naked lunch , berlin style großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for some berliners , summer means ditching the clothes and strutting around without a care in the world .
there 's nothing wrong with that per se , but for bashful ex-pat brits , it can be a truly miserable experience . i recall one summer a couple of years ago lying in the grass in berlin 's tiergarten park , enjoying the fragrant breeze on my face , the warm smell of fresh summer grass and the playful twitter of birds in the trees .
my meditations were disrupted by a male voice asking , " have you got a light ? " i awoke from my daydream and looked up to see a rather hefty middle-aged man sporting at least five bellies standing above me holding a cigarette .
nothing unusual in this you might think - except he was stark naked .
i coughed and spluttered for a moment , rather bashfully rummaged through my bag and held out a lighter in his vague direction while suddenly becoming most interested in intently studying the daisy to my left . after lighting his cigarette , this colossal lump of nakedness then saw fit to stand there for a further 10 minutes discussing the weather .
given that it is rather rude not to make eye contact with someone with whom you are engaged in conversation , i did rather feel obliged to cast the occasional furtive glance in his direction .
however , given that i was lying in the grass and he was standing above me , all i ever seemed to make eye contact with was his looming collection of dangly bits and pieces .
most disturbing . this bold example of nakedness is known as fkk - freikoerperkultur , or naked body culture - and your average german does n't have a problem with it .
even if they themselves do n't strut around in their birthday suit all summer , they seldom seem to notice , much less comment on , other people 's nakedness .
at this time of year , when the temperature has risen at least four million degrees , most berliners are launching themselves into the nearest body of water .
and a good number do so without a stitch on . visit one of berlin 's many lakes -lrb- or indeed some parks -rrb- and thrown into the mix of bathers wearing sensible swimwear , you 'll also see mountains of naked flesh .
some lakes and beaches have designated nudist areas while many others are mixed .
of course this open attitude to nudity in germany is a very healthy one ; small children can splash about in the lake with no clothes on without their parents fearing that a paedophile will jump out from behind the nearest bush while granny and grandpa can enjoy an early evening dip au naturelle quite content with each others ' sagging bodies . bildunterschrift : germans in touch with nature in the 1970s ... brits should enter at their own risk the first fkk club was founded in essen in 1898 with the first nudist beach -lrb- on sylt -rrb- welcoming naked bathers in 1920 .
while attitudes to fkk became increasingly conservative in west germany throughout the 70s and 80s , their east german counterparts still revelled in the feeling of freedom that comes with prancing around in the sun with all their bits and pieces jiggling about .
it has absolutely nothing to do with sex and more to do with man in touch with nature ... or such other primitive nonsense . of course , as a brit , while i find the concept of fkk harmless , in practice it is highly embarrassing .
we have no culture of public displays of nudity in the uk unless you can class the occasional streaker at a cricket match in the 1970s as a healthy display of fkk .
on the contrary , nudity is something to be sniggered at by the prudish brits .
after all , we grew up with benny hill and the carry on films ; types of comedy which taught us that big wobbly breasts were hilarious and the word " knickers " among the funniest in the language . a friend of mine once admonished me for hiding behind a newspaper when some naked swimmers walked past with the rather flimsy justification that " the ducks are naked and that does n't embarrass you . "
no dear , but then again , when was the last time you saw a duck waddling down the street in a three-piece suit ? with this summer being hotter than ever , more and more berliners are trekking to the shady tranquility of the city 's lakes with a good proportion content to do so with no clothes on whatsoever .
next time you 're there , take a break from casting a peep at the naked breasts beside you and indulge in some brit spotting instead ; they 're the ones tittering and spluttering behind their sandwiches at the sight of someone 's bottom . neale lytollis still enjoys a swim at the lake ... dressed in sensible trousers , a duffel coat and balaclava . editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last week 's column when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- swiss want to do away with bare sightings one wild beast the swiss do n't want to see swinging down the trail towards them is a naked german hiker .
-lrb- 10.02.2009 -rrb- east germany 's fascination with flesh gets more exposure a new book detailing east germany 's passion for nudity is set to be launched in typically candid style just weeks after a documentary exposed the communist regime 's secret porn industry .
-lrb- 28.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic visit the world 's largest nudist colony in southern france dw-radio : inside europe www-links missed a ' scene in berlin ' ?
read past editions here feedback does public nudity make you blush or are you a carefree fkk fanatic ?
send us an e-mail with your opinion !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art meet several artists who live in a small world and miniaturize their work .
the filmmaker the model builder the engraver the painter the photographer podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 10 - 1000 robota with a new take on punk subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
naked lunch , berlin style -pipe- culture column -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de culture -pipe- 30.07.2010 naked lunch , berlin style großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for some berliners , summer means ditching the clothes and strutting around without a care in the world .
there 's nothing wrong with that per se , but for bashful ex-pat brits , it can be a truly miserable experience . i recall one summer a couple of years ago lying in the grass in berlin 's tiergarten park , enjoying the fragrant breeze on my face , the warm smell of fresh summer grass and the playful twitter of birds in the trees .
my meditations were disrupted by a male voice asking , " have you got a light ? " i awoke from my daydream and looked up to see a rather hefty middle-aged man sporting at least five bellies standing above me holding a cigarette .
nothing unusual in this you might think - except he was stark naked .
i coughed and spluttered for a moment , rather bashfully rummaged through my bag and held out a lighter in his vague direction while suddenly becoming most interested in intently studying the daisy to my left . after lighting his cigarette , this colossal lump of nakedness then saw fit to stand there for a further 10 minutes discussing the weather .
given that it is rather rude not to make eye contact with someone with whom you are engaged in conversation , i did rather feel obliged to cast the occasional furtive glance in his direction .
however , given that i was lying in the grass and he was standing above me , all i ever seemed to make eye contact with was his looming collection of dangly bits and pieces .
most disturbing . this bold example of nakedness is known as fkk - freikoerperkultur , or naked body culture - and your average german does n't have a problem with it .
even if they themselves do n't strut around in their birthday suit all summer , they seldom seem to notice , much less comment on , other people 's nakedness .
at this time of year , when the temperature has risen at least four million degrees , most berliners are launching themselves into the nearest body of water .
and a good number do so without a stitch on . visit one of berlin 's many lakes -lrb- or indeed some parks -rrb- and thrown into the mix of bathers wearing sensible swimwear , you 'll also see mountains of naked flesh .
some lakes and beaches have designated nudist areas while many others are mixed .
of course this open attitude to nudity in germany is a very healthy one ; small children can splash about in the lake with no clothes on without their parents fearing that a paedophile will jump out from behind the nearest bush while granny and grandpa can enjoy an early evening dip au naturelle quite content with each others ' sagging bodies . bildunterschrift : germans in touch with nature in the 1970s ... brits should enter at their own risk the first fkk club was founded in essen in 1898 with the first nudist beach -lrb- on sylt -rrb- welcoming naked bathers in 1920 .
while attitudes to fkk became increasingly conservative in west germany throughout the 70s and 80s , their east german counterparts still revelled in the feeling of freedom that comes with prancing around in the sun with all their bits and pieces jiggling about .
it has absolutely nothing to do with sex and more to do with man in touch with nature ... or such other primitive nonsense . of course , as a brit , while i find the concept of fkk harmless , in practice it is highly embarrassing .
we have no culture of public displays of nudity in the uk unless you can class the occasional streaker at a cricket match in the 1970s as a healthy display of fkk .
on the contrary , nudity is something to be sniggered at by the prudish brits .
after all , we grew up with benny hill and the carry on films ; types of comedy which taught us that big wobbly breasts were hilarious and the word " knickers " among the funniest in the language . a friend of mine once admonished me for hiding behind a newspaper when some naked swimmers walked past with the rather flimsy justification that " the ducks are naked and that does n't embarrass you . "
no dear , but then again , when was the last time you saw a duck waddling down the street in a three-piece suit ? with this summer being hotter than ever , more and more berliners are trekking to the shady tranquility of the city 's lakes with a good proportion content to do so with no clothes on whatsoever .
next time you 're there , take a break from casting a peep at the naked breasts beside you and indulge in some brit spotting instead ; they 're the ones tittering and spluttering behind their sandwiches at the sight of someone 's bottom . neale lytollis still enjoys a swim at the lake ... dressed in sensible trousers , a duffel coat and balaclava . editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last week 's column when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- swiss want to do away with bare sightings one wild beast the swiss do n't want to see swinging down the trail towards them is a naked german hiker .
-lrb- 10.02.2009 -rrb- east germany 's fascination with flesh gets more exposure a new book detailing east germany 's passion for nudity is set to be launched in typically candid style just weeks after a documentary exposed the communist regime 's secret porn industry .
-lrb- 28.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic visit the world 's largest nudist colony in southern france dw-radio : inside europe www-links missed a ' scene in berlin ' ?
read past editions here feedback does public nudity make you blush or are you a carefree fkk fanatic ?
send us an e-mail with your opinion !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live partner npr berlin national public radio provides noncommercial news , talk , and entertainment from the us .
social media become a fan follow deutsche welle on the online interactive platform facebook .
word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view link berlin culture crawl blogger lily philipose bases each post on conversations with berliners on what they 're up to . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates feedback would you stay or would you go ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1957 : first nuclear chain reaction in germany © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates feedback would you stay or would you go ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week liquid assets : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
the future of motoring 2 : zero-emissions vehicles the crisis in portugal bio-fuels : the debate continues pumps and robots - german technology for fukushima stock exchange today in history 1930 : " the blue angel " premieres © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates feedback would you stay or would you go ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fifa women 's world cup - another summer celebration ?
la máquina - tunnel-boring machinery for mexico , part 4 : the breakthrough industrial farming - pigs at dumping prices siematic kitchens - exclusive and expensive stock exchange today in history 1962 : premier of jules et jim © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates feedback would you stay or would you go ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live stock exchange today in history 1985 : minister brought down due to the greenpeace affair © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- feedback how far can dortmund go in the europa league this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- feedback how far can dortmund go in the europa league this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- feedback how far can dortmund go in the europa league this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
bundesliga picks playing hurt it 's match day 28 in the bundesliga but dw 's tired pundits wish it was all over already ...
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- feedback how far can dortmund go in the europa league this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- feedback how far can dortmund go in the europa league this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions hands down dw pundits hope a palm and 50 cents are all it takes to get the scores right on match day 14 .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg cantona 's revolution former footballer , now actor eric cantona wants to start a revolution targetting the banks .
listen to the report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- feedback are a turkish-german who has moved to turkey ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour beethovenfest 2010 listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- feedback are a turkish-german who has moved to turkey ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- feedback are a turkish-german who has moved to turkey ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in good shape we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet electric cars , russia 's khimki forest , health and climate , canadian pipelines listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- feedback are a turkish-german who has moved to turkey ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- feedback are a turkish-german who has moved to turkey ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback have google 's actions concerned you ?
do you worry about online data protection ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook energy researchers hope nuclear fusion reactors could put an end to the world 's energy problems .
endless energy health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
quiz take the quiz - win an ipad !
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback have google 's actions concerned you ?
do you worry about online data protection ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook energy researchers hope nuclear fusion reactors could put an end to the world 's energy problems .
endless energy health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
quiz take the quiz - win an ipad !
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback have google 's actions concerned you ?
do you worry about online data protection ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards voting is underway at the bobs - deutsche welle 's annual blog contest .
cast your ballot social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback have google 's actions concerned you ?
do you worry about online data protection ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback have google 's actions concerned you ?
do you worry about online data protection ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
postcard from europe : love parade - the end of an era -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 30.07.2010 postcard from europe : love parade - the end of an era großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's love parade had its roots in berlin the duisburg tragedy is just another black mark against techno ; a genre which was once king in germany but which is now rapidly falling from favor .
neale lytollis sent us this postcard on the end of an era . ask any music buff who was around in germany in 1989 , and more often than not they 'll tell you that had it not been for the fall of the berlin wall , techno as we know it today would never have loomed so large on the german musical radar .
towards the end of the 80s , techno , with its repetitive computer beats and clinical , robotic attitude was a niche genre enjoyed by only a handful of forward thinking kids in west berlin .
but then the wall came down and with it a massive influx of teenagers from the communist east .
for years they 'd been forced to stagnate on a diet of state-controlled , sanitised pop and now they were filled with a party spirit and eager to dance to something new .
and they found it in techno , a genre which could n't have been more different from the communist propaganda they 'd grown up with ; it was cold , electronic , it had no difficult english lyrics to mangle , it was the sci-fi sound of the approaching 90s .
of course the introduction of the new designer drug ecstasy did much to add to the euphoria of a united germany , a massive political event which helped consolidate techno 's status as germany 's primary musical export .
despite the genre having its roots in detroit and chicago , berlin quickly became techno 's honorary european hq and throughout the 90s ; it seemed like everyone here was a fan .
techno superclubs like tresor , e-werk and ostgut began popping up all over the city , often in cavernous , abandoned old power stations .
time to beat it ?
but it 's not 1989 any more and while the beat of techno still rings out here , its days could well be numbered .
many of the djs who established the scene in the first place are nudging retirement age and some have already dropped off the radar .
that original generation of clubbers are now respectable teachers and architects with children of their own .
the love parade , once a fixture of berlin 's cultural scene got shunted to other cities .
and for the first time in years , berlin techno havens like one called berghain have begun slipping out of the top ten lists of world 's best clubs ; something which 10 years ago would have seemed unimaginable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw correspondent neale lytollis says the techno era is drawing to a close while techno clubs and parties do still exist here the visitor profile is very different .
clubber turned journo tobias rapp describes them as the easyjet set ; up for it europeans who come to berlin on cheap flights to get wrecked for a weekend .
so far-reaching is berghain 's legendary status that the line of clubbers is made up more or less entirely of kids from spain , italy , scandinavia and eastern europe , while berliners take refuge in less celebrated venues and dance to anything other than techno .
the tragedy at duisburg 's love parade last week which saw more than 20 people lose their lives , will no doubt add another nail to the rapidly-closing lid of techno 's coffin .
but in berlin at least , where change is arguably the most integral aspect of the city 's character , the party spirit will live on ; it 's just the party wo n't be in berghain and techno wo n't be the soundtrack .
author : neale lytollis editor : neil king send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- love parade death toll climbs to 21 the death toll from the crush at last weekend 's love parade festival climbed to 21 on wednesday .
accusations over who is to blame are focusing on the organizers of the event .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- the businessman behind the ill-fated love parade the organizer of the ill-fated love parade , german fitness czar rainer schaller , has a reputation for swimming against the current and making risks pay off .
now the entrepreneur has become the obejct of public scrutiny .
-lrb- 26.07.2010 -rrb- feedback is it right to do away with the love parade ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
postcard from europe : love parade - the end of an era -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 30.07.2010 postcard from europe : love parade - the end of an era großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's love parade had its roots in berlin the duisburg tragedy is just another black mark against techno ; a genre which was once king in germany but which is now rapidly falling from favor .
neale lytollis sent us this postcard on the end of an era . ask any music buff who was around in germany in 1989 , and more often than not they 'll tell you that had it not been for the fall of the berlin wall , techno as we know it today would never have loomed so large on the german musical radar .
towards the end of the 80s , techno , with its repetitive computer beats and clinical , robotic attitude was a niche genre enjoyed by only a handful of forward thinking kids in west berlin .
but then the wall came down and with it a massive influx of teenagers from the communist east .
for years they 'd been forced to stagnate on a diet of state-controlled , sanitised pop and now they were filled with a party spirit and eager to dance to something new .
and they found it in techno , a genre which could n't have been more different from the communist propaganda they 'd grown up with ; it was cold , electronic , it had no difficult english lyrics to mangle , it was the sci-fi sound of the approaching 90s .
of course the introduction of the new designer drug ecstasy did much to add to the euphoria of a united germany , a massive political event which helped consolidate techno 's status as germany 's primary musical export .
despite the genre having its roots in detroit and chicago , berlin quickly became techno 's honorary european hq and throughout the 90s ; it seemed like everyone here was a fan .
techno superclubs like tresor , e-werk and ostgut began popping up all over the city , often in cavernous , abandoned old power stations .
time to beat it ?
but it 's not 1989 any more and while the beat of techno still rings out here , its days could well be numbered .
many of the djs who established the scene in the first place are nudging retirement age and some have already dropped off the radar .
that original generation of clubbers are now respectable teachers and architects with children of their own .
the love parade , once a fixture of berlin 's cultural scene got shunted to other cities .
and for the first time in years , berlin techno havens like one called berghain have begun slipping out of the top ten lists of world 's best clubs ; something which 10 years ago would have seemed unimaginable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw correspondent neale lytollis says the techno era is drawing to a close while techno clubs and parties do still exist here the visitor profile is very different .
clubber turned journo tobias rapp describes them as the easyjet set ; up for it europeans who come to berlin on cheap flights to get wrecked for a weekend .
so far-reaching is berghain 's legendary status that the line of clubbers is made up more or less entirely of kids from spain , italy , scandinavia and eastern europe , while berliners take refuge in less celebrated venues and dance to anything other than techno .
the tragedy at duisburg 's love parade last week which saw more than 20 people lose their lives , will no doubt add another nail to the rapidly-closing lid of techno 's coffin .
but in berlin at least , where change is arguably the most integral aspect of the city 's character , the party spirit will live on ; it 's just the party wo n't be in berghain and techno wo n't be the soundtrack .
author : neale lytollis editor : neil king send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- love parade death toll climbs to 21 the death toll from the crush at last weekend 's love parade festival climbed to 21 on wednesday .
accusations over who is to blame are focusing on the organizers of the event .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- the businessman behind the ill-fated love parade the organizer of the ill-fated love parade , german fitness czar rainer schaller , has a reputation for swimming against the current and making risks pay off .
now the entrepreneur has become the obejct of public scrutiny .
-lrb- 26.07.2010 -rrb- feedback is it right to do away with the love parade ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
postcard from europe : love parade - the end of an era -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 30.07.2010 postcard from europe : love parade - the end of an era großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's love parade had its roots in berlin the duisburg tragedy is just another black mark against techno ; a genre which was once king in germany but which is now rapidly falling from favor .
neale lytollis sent us this postcard on the end of an era . ask any music buff who was around in germany in 1989 , and more often than not they 'll tell you that had it not been for the fall of the berlin wall , techno as we know it today would never have loomed so large on the german musical radar .
towards the end of the 80s , techno , with its repetitive computer beats and clinical , robotic attitude was a niche genre enjoyed by only a handful of forward thinking kids in west berlin .
but then the wall came down and with it a massive influx of teenagers from the communist east .
for years they 'd been forced to stagnate on a diet of state-controlled , sanitised pop and now they were filled with a party spirit and eager to dance to something new .
and they found it in techno , a genre which could n't have been more different from the communist propaganda they 'd grown up with ; it was cold , electronic , it had no difficult english lyrics to mangle , it was the sci-fi sound of the approaching 90s .
of course the introduction of the new designer drug ecstasy did much to add to the euphoria of a united germany , a massive political event which helped consolidate techno 's status as germany 's primary musical export .
despite the genre having its roots in detroit and chicago , berlin quickly became techno 's honorary european hq and throughout the 90s ; it seemed like everyone here was a fan .
techno superclubs like tresor , e-werk and ostgut began popping up all over the city , often in cavernous , abandoned old power stations .
time to beat it ?
but it 's not 1989 any more and while the beat of techno still rings out here , its days could well be numbered .
many of the djs who established the scene in the first place are nudging retirement age and some have already dropped off the radar .
that original generation of clubbers are now respectable teachers and architects with children of their own .
the love parade , once a fixture of berlin 's cultural scene got shunted to other cities .
and for the first time in years , berlin techno havens like one called berghain have begun slipping out of the top ten lists of world 's best clubs ; something which 10 years ago would have seemed unimaginable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw correspondent neale lytollis says the techno era is drawing to a close while techno clubs and parties do still exist here the visitor profile is very different .
clubber turned journo tobias rapp describes them as the easyjet set ; up for it europeans who come to berlin on cheap flights to get wrecked for a weekend .
so far-reaching is berghain 's legendary status that the line of clubbers is made up more or less entirely of kids from spain , italy , scandinavia and eastern europe , while berliners take refuge in less celebrated venues and dance to anything other than techno .
the tragedy at duisburg 's love parade last week which saw more than 20 people lose their lives , will no doubt add another nail to the rapidly-closing lid of techno 's coffin .
but in berlin at least , where change is arguably the most integral aspect of the city 's character , the party spirit will live on ; it 's just the party wo n't be in berghain and techno wo n't be the soundtrack .
author : neale lytollis editor : neil king send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- love parade death toll climbs to 21 the death toll from the crush at last weekend 's love parade festival climbed to 21 on wednesday .
accusations over who is to blame are focusing on the organizers of the event .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- the businessman behind the ill-fated love parade the organizer of the ill-fated love parade , german fitness czar rainer schaller , has a reputation for swimming against the current and making risks pay off .
now the entrepreneur has become the obejct of public scrutiny .
-lrb- 26.07.2010 -rrb- feedback is it right to do away with the love parade ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live arts.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
postcard from europe : love parade - the end of an era -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 30.07.2010 postcard from europe : love parade - the end of an era großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's love parade had its roots in berlin the duisburg tragedy is just another black mark against techno ; a genre which was once king in germany but which is now rapidly falling from favor .
neale lytollis sent us this postcard on the end of an era . ask any music buff who was around in germany in 1989 , and more often than not they 'll tell you that had it not been for the fall of the berlin wall , techno as we know it today would never have loomed so large on the german musical radar .
towards the end of the 80s , techno , with its repetitive computer beats and clinical , robotic attitude was a niche genre enjoyed by only a handful of forward thinking kids in west berlin .
but then the wall came down and with it a massive influx of teenagers from the communist east .
for years they 'd been forced to stagnate on a diet of state-controlled , sanitised pop and now they were filled with a party spirit and eager to dance to something new .
and they found it in techno , a genre which could n't have been more different from the communist propaganda they 'd grown up with ; it was cold , electronic , it had no difficult english lyrics to mangle , it was the sci-fi sound of the approaching 90s .
of course the introduction of the new designer drug ecstasy did much to add to the euphoria of a united germany , a massive political event which helped consolidate techno 's status as germany 's primary musical export .
despite the genre having its roots in detroit and chicago , berlin quickly became techno 's honorary european hq and throughout the 90s ; it seemed like everyone here was a fan .
techno superclubs like tresor , e-werk and ostgut began popping up all over the city , often in cavernous , abandoned old power stations .
time to beat it ?
but it 's not 1989 any more and while the beat of techno still rings out here , its days could well be numbered .
many of the djs who established the scene in the first place are nudging retirement age and some have already dropped off the radar .
that original generation of clubbers are now respectable teachers and architects with children of their own .
the love parade , once a fixture of berlin 's cultural scene got shunted to other cities .
and for the first time in years , berlin techno havens like one called berghain have begun slipping out of the top ten lists of world 's best clubs ; something which 10 years ago would have seemed unimaginable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw correspondent neale lytollis says the techno era is drawing to a close while techno clubs and parties do still exist here the visitor profile is very different .
clubber turned journo tobias rapp describes them as the easyjet set ; up for it europeans who come to berlin on cheap flights to get wrecked for a weekend .
so far-reaching is berghain 's legendary status that the line of clubbers is made up more or less entirely of kids from spain , italy , scandinavia and eastern europe , while berliners take refuge in less celebrated venues and dance to anything other than techno .
the tragedy at duisburg 's love parade last week which saw more than 20 people lose their lives , will no doubt add another nail to the rapidly-closing lid of techno 's coffin .
but in berlin at least , where change is arguably the most integral aspect of the city 's character , the party spirit will live on ; it 's just the party wo n't be in berghain and techno wo n't be the soundtrack .
author : neale lytollis editor : neil king send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- love parade death toll climbs to 21 the death toll from the crush at last weekend 's love parade festival climbed to 21 on wednesday .
accusations over who is to blame are focusing on the organizers of the event .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- the businessman behind the ill-fated love parade the organizer of the ill-fated love parade , german fitness czar rainer schaller , has a reputation for swimming against the current and making risks pay off .
now the entrepreneur has become the obejct of public scrutiny .
-lrb- 26.07.2010 -rrb- feedback is it right to do away with the love parade ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live people natascha kampusch , the austrian who was kept prisoner from age 10 to 18 , publishes her autobigraphy .
listen to the report postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket are the gay games necessary ?
love parade - the end of an era oracle paul takes the plunge europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
postcard from europe : love parade - the end of an era -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 30.07.2010 postcard from europe : love parade - the end of an era großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany 's love parade had its roots in berlin the duisburg tragedy is just another black mark against techno ; a genre which was once king in germany but which is now rapidly falling from favor .
neale lytollis sent us this postcard on the end of an era . ask any music buff who was around in germany in 1989 , and more often than not they 'll tell you that had it not been for the fall of the berlin wall , techno as we know it today would never have loomed so large on the german musical radar .
towards the end of the 80s , techno , with its repetitive computer beats and clinical , robotic attitude was a niche genre enjoyed by only a handful of forward thinking kids in west berlin .
but then the wall came down and with it a massive influx of teenagers from the communist east .
for years they 'd been forced to stagnate on a diet of state-controlled , sanitised pop and now they were filled with a party spirit and eager to dance to something new .
and they found it in techno , a genre which could n't have been more different from the communist propaganda they 'd grown up with ; it was cold , electronic , it had no difficult english lyrics to mangle , it was the sci-fi sound of the approaching 90s .
of course the introduction of the new designer drug ecstasy did much to add to the euphoria of a united germany , a massive political event which helped consolidate techno 's status as germany 's primary musical export .
despite the genre having its roots in detroit and chicago , berlin quickly became techno 's honorary european hq and throughout the 90s ; it seemed like everyone here was a fan .
techno superclubs like tresor , e-werk and ostgut began popping up all over the city , often in cavernous , abandoned old power stations .
time to beat it ?
but it 's not 1989 any more and while the beat of techno still rings out here , its days could well be numbered .
many of the djs who established the scene in the first place are nudging retirement age and some have already dropped off the radar .
that original generation of clubbers are now respectable teachers and architects with children of their own .
the love parade , once a fixture of berlin 's cultural scene got shunted to other cities .
and for the first time in years , berlin techno havens like one called berghain have begun slipping out of the top ten lists of world 's best clubs ; something which 10 years ago would have seemed unimaginable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dw correspondent neale lytollis says the techno era is drawing to a close while techno clubs and parties do still exist here the visitor profile is very different .
clubber turned journo tobias rapp describes them as the easyjet set ; up for it europeans who come to berlin on cheap flights to get wrecked for a weekend .
so far-reaching is berghain 's legendary status that the line of clubbers is made up more or less entirely of kids from spain , italy , scandinavia and eastern europe , while berliners take refuge in less celebrated venues and dance to anything other than techno .
the tragedy at duisburg 's love parade last week which saw more than 20 people lose their lives , will no doubt add another nail to the rapidly-closing lid of techno 's coffin .
but in berlin at least , where change is arguably the most integral aspect of the city 's character , the party spirit will live on ; it 's just the party wo n't be in berghain and techno wo n't be the soundtrack .
author : neale lytollis editor : neil king send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- love parade death toll climbs to 21 the death toll from the crush at last weekend 's love parade festival climbed to 21 on wednesday .
accusations over who is to blame are focusing on the organizers of the event .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- the businessman behind the ill-fated love parade the organizer of the ill-fated love parade , german fitness czar rainer schaller , has a reputation for swimming against the current and making risks pay off .
now the entrepreneur has become the obejct of public scrutiny .
-lrb- 26.07.2010 -rrb- feedback is it right to do away with the love parade ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with composer brett dean listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- feedback to what extent should berlin hinder the process of gentrification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live arts meet some of the people who are transforming germany 's ruhr region .
singer riccardo doppio graffiti artist danijel brekalo architect gabriele frielinghaus designer constanze alef photography an italian photo project aims to break down barriers between generations and cultures .
listen to the report picture gallery podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- feedback to what extent should berlin hinder the process of gentrification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live food and drink taste europe 's highlights .
specialty beer from sylt oyster safari in denmark a meal in provence podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- feedback to what extent should berlin hinder the process of gentrification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
food try these recipes for a taste of europe .
hearty irish stew knödel dumplings with meat filling ribolitta from florence berlin-style pork with potatoes fish from lake traunsee in austria cologne fish with gourmet twist sweet-savory pheasant from leeds escudella vegetable and meat soup podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 10 - 1000 robota with a new take on punk subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- feedback to what extent should berlin hinder the process of gentrification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski clip no. 9 - the bonny situation subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- feedback to what extent should berlin hinder the process of gentrification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week liquid assets : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
the future of motoring 2 : zero-emissions vehicles the crisis in portugal bio-fuels : the debate continues pumps and robots - german technology for fukushima stock exchange today in history 1930 : " the blue angel " premieres © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour listen live stock exchange today in history 1989 : honecker resigns © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
fifa women 's world cup - another summer celebration ?
la máquina - tunnel-boring machinery for mexico , part 4 : the breakthrough industrial farming - pigs at dumping prices siematic kitchens - exclusive and expensive stock exchange today in history 1962 : premier of jules et jim © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1916 : first tank in action © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with composer brett dean listen live stock exchange today in history 1989 : herrhausen murdered © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink news and perspectives from the heart of europe listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week traditions of the advent season listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 30.07.2010 nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : each of president goodluck jonathan 's posts draw between 1,000 and 2,000 comments president goodluck jonathan has attracted over 144,000 facebook fans in just a few short weeks , and he writes his own posts every day , in english , drawing thousands of comments . last week , facebook announced that it had passed 500 million member mark .
but one of its newer members is nigerian president goodluck jonathan , who is posting up a storm on his facebook page .
over 144,000 people have said that they like his facebook page , where he posts in english about his daily political activities .
president jonathan is more popular on facebook than german chancellor angela merkel , who only has around 42,000 fans , but still significantly trails the world ’ s most popular online politician , barack obama , who has over 11.5 million fans .
online nigerians seem to be very excited at their president ’ s adoption of the popular social networking site as he seems to be riding the wave of increasing popularity for the site in nigeria .
" this is a real change , but a good change , " said a woman in an internet café in sokoto in northwestern nigeria .
" it allows all of nigeria the ability to give their opinions directly to the politicians .
when there are problems , then they can set them straight .
before the president there were already a few other politicians on facebook .
they give their opinions on various topics , just like we do , without being afraid of being arrested .
this reduces the gulf between the politicians and the people . "
already , around one million nigerians have signed up for facebook .
with that kind of audience , the social networking site has become very attractive to many politicians .
they see it as a way to get into discussions with their fellow countrymen , and as a way to air their thoughts and hopefully , to build support .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president jonathan has over 144,000 fans on facebook facebook has influenced political decisions yakuba musa , who works on the nigerian president 's public relations team , describes the first facebook day as a huge success .
and though he helped initiate that idea , he says he ’ s not the one writing the president ’ s posts .
" the president does it himself , " he told deutsche welle .
" and if you look at it , it has been influencing some of the decisions that he has been taking , for example , the nigerian football association .
the president reversed his decision -lrb- to ban the team from international play over their poor world cup performance -rrb- and subsequently , on the website he said that he based his decision on some comments that he got from nigerians . "
jonathan does n't only write about soccer .
he discusses other things that have been troubling his people for a long time : the inconsistent and insufficient electricity production , say , or environmental problems in the niger delta .
and it seems the nigerians have taken to the idea of a conversation with their head of state .
each entry by the president quickly attracts between 1,500 and 2,000 comments .
at the same internet cafe in sokoto , abdurrahman mohammed is also excited about the new opportunities the web has brought .
" i opened a facebook page because i saw how many other people were getting on the social network , " he said .
" i can use facebook to let people know what i think .
and i hope i can do my bit to make so many things in my country and the world better .
i think what our president has done is great .
it 's good for all nigerians . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : of nigeria 's 11 million internet users , only around one million of them are on facebook muslim leaders also seek new followers on facebook and it is n't just politicians and regular citizens in nigeria who have discovered the internet and social networks .
muslim imams are also trying to gain new followers by using facebook .
usman aliyu is one of them .
he uses facebook as a platform to discuss religious and social issues .
" i opened a facebook page because i want to know how people act within the social network , " he said .
" we ’ ve seen that many young people are very active on facebook .
so we use that as a way to show how religious concepts and the correct way of acting applies to their daily lives , " he explained .
lawal aliyu is exactly the kind of person the imam is targeting , but he does n't have time for what he sees as small ideas .
to him facebook is more about getting out into the world .
" facebook is a website where people can give their opinions or discuss problems , " he said .
" in our country , people often do n't always have courage to say what they think in public .
but on facebook they can write what they want .
the whole world can see it , react to it and make suggestions . "
author : mohammad awal -lrb- cf -rrb- editor : ranjitha balasubramanyam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german officials charge facebook with privacy violations german data protection officials go after facebook for storing personal data of non-users .
meanwhile , another official advocates creating a smartphone app for users to track personal information gathered about them .
-lrb- 08.07.2010 -rrb- nigerian president 's death could trigger sectarian violence nigerian president umaru yar 'adua has died following a long illness that had sparked a leadership crisis in the country .
analysts expect his succession to be the most hotly contested since nigeria 's return to democracy .
-lrb- 06.05.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic nigerian president interacts with citizens on facebook feedback do you think politicians should be on facebook ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards voting is underway at the bobs - deutsche welle 's annual blog contest .
cast your ballot social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think the us should do in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 india & china the chinese pm has told his indian counterpart the world is big enough for both their countries .
srikant kondapalli from jnu talks about the controversies overshadowing indo-chinese relations october asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 29.10.10 china tells india the world is big enough for both of them 100 days since devastating floods hit pakistan student exchange program between india and germany thrives podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters culture green chillies at berlin asian film festival there were 80 films to be seen at the third asian hot shots festival for film & video art .
india-us us president obama is due to arrive in india next week to discuss economic ties .
ahead of obama 's visit there is some tension over the us not passing information from let operative david headley about the mumbai attacks , says murali krishnan © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 21.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think the us should do in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 china-japan relations the row over japan 's detention of the chinese captain of a fishing trawler has intensified .
deutsche welle correspondent ruth kirchner talks about rising sino-japanese tension pakistan the catastrophe click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
september asia quiz quiz of the month asia compact join us on facebook !
women in conflict years of political instability in nepal have left women battered and in grave need for help .
nepalese doctor and women 's rights activist speaks about crimes against women in conflict situations .
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 20.09.10 islamist groups are very visible in flood-affected regions of pakistan chinese media raise pitch in anti-japan tirades podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think the us should do in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 afpak richard holbrooke , us special envoy for afghanistan and pakistan , has died .
paul rogers from bradford university talks about holbrooke 's legacy for the region december asia quiz quiz of the month bangladesh thousands of garment workers protest after four die in police firing .
arun chowdhury talks to m. m. akash , professor of economics at dhaka university , about the root of the problem : minimum wages listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 15.12.10 exclusive interview with aung sun suu kyi chinese pm visits india podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online asia compact join us on facebook !
fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think the us should do in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 april asia quiz quiz of the month religion human rights watch says vietnam persecutes indigenous christian montagnards in the highlands .
phil robertson from hrw says christian house churches are targeted in particular global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media migration in bali , ministers from asian countries signed an agreement to tackle human trafficking networks .
asia-pacific spokesman of the international organization for migration , chris lom , talks about why his organization supports the so-called bali process listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 31.03.11 indian activists face many dangers asian countries to cooperate on migration issues german exhibition to open in beijing podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online digital stories deutsche welle 's partner website from pakistan newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think the us should do in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 vietnam party congress the five-yearly congress of vietnam 's communist party has come to an end in hanoi .
joerg bergstermann of the friedrich ebert foundation in hanoi talks about whether the congress has brought any significant changes asia compact join us on facebook !
bangladesh nobel laureate muhammad yunus has been charged with defamation for saying politicians are only interested in money .
abbas faiz from amnesty international on whether there is any chance yunus could be convicted for remarks made in 2007 to a news agency january asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 21.01.11 insurgents seem to be retreating in kunduz indian officials accuse ngos of supporting maoists human trafficking out of nepal has increased podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you agree that there is war in afghanistan because the international troops are there ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 india & china the chinese pm has told his indian counterpart the world is big enough for both their countries .
srikant kondapalli from jnu talks about the controversies overshadowing indo-chinese relations listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 29.10.10 china tells india the world is big enough for both of them 100 days since devastating floods hit pakistan student exchange program between india and germany thrives podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters culture green chillies at berlin asian film festival there were 80 films to be seen at the third asian hot shots festival for film & video art . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you agree that there is war in afghanistan because the international troops are there ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 reader response feedback on kashmir , korea and other issues our readers and asia compact listeners are passionate about sending in their views .
september asia quiz quiz of the month pakistan the catastrophe click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 23.09.10 commonwealth games could turn into a major embarrassment for delhi new book by bob woodward exposes deep divisions in washington over afghanistan cologne exhibition takes a new look at china podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you agree that there is war in afghanistan because the international troops are there ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 april asia quiz quiz of the month religion human rights watch says vietnam persecutes indigenous christian montagnards in the highlands .
phil robertson from hrw says christian house churches are targeted in particular global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media migration in bali , ministers from asian countries signed an agreement to tackle human trafficking networks .
asia-pacific spokesman of the international organization for migration , chris lom , talks about why his organization supports the so-called bali process listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 01.04.11 radioactive contamination of sea water off japan vietnam 's montagnards face repression aids in myanmar podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online digital stories deutsche welle 's partner website from pakistan newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook energy researchers hope nuclear fusion reactors could put an end to the world 's energy problems .
endless energy health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
quiz take the quiz - win an ipad !
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook energy researchers hope nuclear fusion reactors could put an end to the world 's energy problems .
endless energy health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
quiz take the quiz - win an ipad !
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards voting is underway at the bobs - deutsche welle 's annual blog contest .
cast your ballot social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- feedback are megacities monsters or marvels ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 pakistan floods in pakistan click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
afghanistan one year after the kunduz airstrike , aerial attacks still cause many civilian deaths .
abdul bari hakim of the deutsche welle afghanistan service says kunduz has not been forgotten september asia quiz quiz of the month japan japan 's prime minister naoto kan faces a challenge from rival ichiro ozawa .
interview with paul kevenhoerster , japan expert at the university of muenster asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact -lrb- 03.09.2010 -rrb- one year after the kunduz attacks sanitation without subsidies in cambodia indian bookies and match fixing podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- feedback are megacities monsters or marvels ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 pakistan five german militants are said to have been killed by a us missile strike in pakistan .
jochen hippler from duisburg university talks about how reliable reports from the pakistani security agencies are october asia quiz quiz of the month asia compact join us on facebook !
pakistan the catastrophe click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 05.10.10 several german militants reportedly killed by us drone strike in pakistan europe piles pressure on china to raise value of the yuan some people think n korea 's heir apparent kim jong-un is too fat podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- feedback are megacities monsters or marvels ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 migration in bali , ministers from asian countries signed an agreement to tackle human trafficking networks .
asia-pacific spokesman of the international organization for migration , chris lom , talks about why his organization supports the so-called bali process global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media human rights human rights watch has written a letter to the burmese army , calling on it to end widespread abuses .
hrw 's brad adams says the recent elections and political reforms have not changed the army 's behavior listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 31.03.11 indian activists face many dangers asian countries to cooperate on migration issues german exhibition to open in beijing podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online march asia quiz quiz of the month digital stories deutsche welle 's partner website from pakistan newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- feedback are megacities monsters or marvels ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 vietnam party congress the five-yearly congress of vietnam 's communist party has come to an end in hanoi .
joerg bergstermann of the friedrich ebert foundation in hanoi talks about whether the congress has brought any significant changes asia compact join us on facebook !
bangladesh nobel laureate muhammad yunus has been charged with defamation for saying politicians are only interested in money .
abbas faiz from amnesty international on whether there is any chance yunus could be convicted for remarks made in 2007 to a news agency january asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 21.01.11 insurgents seem to be retreating in kunduz indian officials accuse ngos of supporting maoists human trafficking out of nepal has increased podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- feedback are megacities monsters or marvels ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 wikileaks pakistan has criticized the release of secret us diplomatic documents by wikileaks .
farrukh saleem , a political analyst in islamabad , talks about the latest controversy listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 29.11.10 south korea threatens to react to provocations pakistan criticizes latest wikileaks indo-china border talks get going again podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online november asia quiz quiz of the month © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de peacekeeping -pipe- 30.07.2010 hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the somali police were trained in ethiopia , funded by germany almost 1,000 somali police have gone missing after their training was financed by the german government .
it is feared these officers will now join forces with the islamist militants al-shabaab . in september 2009 , the german government released $ 1 million -lrb- 760,000 euros -rrb- of funding to train somali police officers .
the training took place in ethiopia , and the new recruits were equipped with uniforms , weapons and knowledge with the aim of sending them back into somalia to try and keep peace in the fractured country .
two months after the completion of this training , almost 1,000 new police officers have reportedly disappeared en route to the somali capital mogadishu .
it is thought highly likely that these deserters have left to join opposition islamist militia in somalia .
in a statement , the german foreign office confirmed that funds were released to train somali police , and that in may 2010 , 925 trained officers were transported to somalia under ethiopian surveillance .
they did not comment on whether the police had deserted or not .
' training the opposition ' currently , the transitional somali government is struggling to suppress the militia , including al-qaeda sympathisers al-shabaab , who control as much as two-thirds of the country .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opposition militia control two-thirds of somalia germany is one of several countries who have committed to training security personnel as in indirect method of trying to help , without military intervention .
however , according to ulrich delius from the society for threatened peoples , the problem is that most of these newly trained recruits " leave after a few months " to go and work for the armed opposition .
" you have to ensure that these people really stay in the official army or police , " delius told deutsche welle .
" otherwise you are just training the people you will be fighting in a few months . "
a report published by the head of the un monitoring group on somalia , dumisani kumalo in 2008 , said 80 percent of trained security officers deserted their posts , taking with them their weapons , uniforms and the acquired knowledge .
reasons for desertion at a time when the transitional government is barely keeping a hold on the north of somalia , deserters may feel they are better off siding with the militants than the government .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : weapons have become valuable commodities " no one is sure who will be the government of tomorrow … so they are switching to survive , " delius said .
" also , you need a weapon and whether you get it from the police or from the armed opposition , it does not matter . "
he added that money was another strong incentive for joining the militants , as " somali warlords often offer more money than the official army or police . "
in this case , german media reports that the somali police were waiting for their pay from the german government before they disappeared .
another reason for discontent may be due to the fact that the training took place in ethiopia – a country with a long , bloody history with somalia .
" there 's a very strong feeling against ethiopia in all parts of somali society , " said delius .
stabilization the german government has come under fire for not only partnering with ethiopia , but also according to some sources , bypassing the correct united nations procedures and ignoring sanctions against somalia .
however , the foreign ministry said in a statement that it had informed both the un contact group on somalia and the un sanctions committee .
in recent weeks , the government has reconfirmed its commitment to aiding somalia , most recently at the african union summit in kampala .
german foreign minister guido westerwelle said that the training of police in somalia was a " substantial contribution " to stabilizing the country .
ulrich delius argues however that all the projects for training security forces will continue to have no effect until politicians start to " understand the root of the problems in somalia . "
author : catherine bolsover editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de somalia taking center stage at african union summit somalia is once again dominating the agenda at the biannual summit of african leaders .
experts agree that the tactics need to change in somalia in order for peace to return to the country .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- investigation opens into german mercenaries in somalia the public prosecutor in the german city of muenster has opened an investigation into reports that a german security firm is sending mercenaries to a somali warlord amid concerns the deal violates un sanctions .
-lrb- 26.05.2010 -rrb- experts say west needs to change half-hearted approach to somalia a conference on somalia is being convened by the united nations in istanbul with the aim of showing support for the somali people .
but observers say the west 's half-hearted approach is doing more harm than good .
-lrb- 21.05.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think training somali police will help restore order ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de peacekeeping -pipe- 30.07.2010 hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the somali police were trained in ethiopia , funded by germany almost 1,000 somali police have gone missing after their training was financed by the german government .
it is feared these officers will now join forces with the islamist militants al-shabaab . in september 2009 , the german government released $ 1 million -lrb- 760,000 euros -rrb- of funding to train somali police officers .
the training took place in ethiopia , and the new recruits were equipped with uniforms , weapons and knowledge with the aim of sending them back into somalia to try and keep peace in the fractured country .
two months after the completion of this training , almost 1,000 new police officers have reportedly disappeared en route to the somali capital mogadishu .
it is thought highly likely that these deserters have left to join opposition islamist militia in somalia .
in a statement , the german foreign office confirmed that funds were released to train somali police , and that in may 2010 , 925 trained officers were transported to somalia under ethiopian surveillance .
they did not comment on whether the police had deserted or not .
' training the opposition ' currently , the transitional somali government is struggling to suppress the militia , including al-qaeda sympathisers al-shabaab , who control as much as two-thirds of the country .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opposition militia control two-thirds of somalia germany is one of several countries who have committed to training security personnel as in indirect method of trying to help , without military intervention .
however , according to ulrich delius from the society for threatened peoples , the problem is that most of these newly trained recruits " leave after a few months " to go and work for the armed opposition .
" you have to ensure that these people really stay in the official army or police , " delius told deutsche welle .
" otherwise you are just training the people you will be fighting in a few months . "
a report published by the head of the un monitoring group on somalia , dumisani kumalo in 2008 , said 80 percent of trained security officers deserted their posts , taking with them their weapons , uniforms and the acquired knowledge .
reasons for desertion at a time when the transitional government is barely keeping a hold on the north of somalia , deserters may feel they are better off siding with the militants than the government .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : weapons have become valuable commodities " no one is sure who will be the government of tomorrow … so they are switching to survive , " delius said .
" also , you need a weapon and whether you get it from the police or from the armed opposition , it does not matter . "
he added that money was another strong incentive for joining the militants , as " somali warlords often offer more money than the official army or police . "
in this case , german media reports that the somali police were waiting for their pay from the german government before they disappeared .
another reason for discontent may be due to the fact that the training took place in ethiopia – a country with a long , bloody history with somalia .
" there 's a very strong feeling against ethiopia in all parts of somali society , " said delius .
stabilization the german government has come under fire for not only partnering with ethiopia , but also according to some sources , bypassing the correct united nations procedures and ignoring sanctions against somalia .
however , the foreign ministry said in a statement that it had informed both the un contact group on somalia and the un sanctions committee .
in recent weeks , the government has reconfirmed its commitment to aiding somalia , most recently at the african union summit in kampala .
german foreign minister guido westerwelle said that the training of police in somalia was a " substantial contribution " to stabilizing the country .
ulrich delius argues however that all the projects for training security forces will continue to have no effect until politicians start to " understand the root of the problems in somalia . "
author : catherine bolsover editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de somalia taking center stage at african union summit somalia is once again dominating the agenda at the biannual summit of african leaders .
experts agree that the tactics need to change in somalia in order for peace to return to the country .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- investigation opens into german mercenaries in somalia the public prosecutor in the german city of muenster has opened an investigation into reports that a german security firm is sending mercenaries to a somali warlord amid concerns the deal violates un sanctions .
-lrb- 26.05.2010 -rrb- experts say west needs to change half-hearted approach to somalia a conference on somalia is being convened by the united nations in istanbul with the aim of showing support for the somali people .
but observers say the west 's half-hearted approach is doing more harm than good .
-lrb- 21.05.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think training somali police will help restore order ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de peacekeeping -pipe- 30.07.2010 hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the somali police were trained in ethiopia , funded by germany almost 1,000 somali police have gone missing after their training was financed by the german government .
it is feared these officers will now join forces with the islamist militants al-shabaab . in september 2009 , the german government released $ 1 million -lrb- 760,000 euros -rrb- of funding to train somali police officers .
the training took place in ethiopia , and the new recruits were equipped with uniforms , weapons and knowledge with the aim of sending them back into somalia to try and keep peace in the fractured country .
two months after the completion of this training , almost 1,000 new police officers have reportedly disappeared en route to the somali capital mogadishu .
it is thought highly likely that these deserters have left to join opposition islamist militia in somalia .
in a statement , the german foreign office confirmed that funds were released to train somali police , and that in may 2010 , 925 trained officers were transported to somalia under ethiopian surveillance .
they did not comment on whether the police had deserted or not .
' training the opposition ' currently , the transitional somali government is struggling to suppress the militia , including al-qaeda sympathisers al-shabaab , who control as much as two-thirds of the country .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opposition militia control two-thirds of somalia germany is one of several countries who have committed to training security personnel as in indirect method of trying to help , without military intervention .
however , according to ulrich delius from the society for threatened peoples , the problem is that most of these newly trained recruits " leave after a few months " to go and work for the armed opposition .
" you have to ensure that these people really stay in the official army or police , " delius told deutsche welle .
" otherwise you are just training the people you will be fighting in a few months . "
a report published by the head of the un monitoring group on somalia , dumisani kumalo in 2008 , said 80 percent of trained security officers deserted their posts , taking with them their weapons , uniforms and the acquired knowledge .
reasons for desertion at a time when the transitional government is barely keeping a hold on the north of somalia , deserters may feel they are better off siding with the militants than the government .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : weapons have become valuable commodities " no one is sure who will be the government of tomorrow … so they are switching to survive , " delius said .
" also , you need a weapon and whether you get it from the police or from the armed opposition , it does not matter . "
he added that money was another strong incentive for joining the militants , as " somali warlords often offer more money than the official army or police . "
in this case , german media reports that the somali police were waiting for their pay from the german government before they disappeared .
another reason for discontent may be due to the fact that the training took place in ethiopia – a country with a long , bloody history with somalia .
" there 's a very strong feeling against ethiopia in all parts of somali society , " said delius .
stabilization the german government has come under fire for not only partnering with ethiopia , but also according to some sources , bypassing the correct united nations procedures and ignoring sanctions against somalia .
however , the foreign ministry said in a statement that it had informed both the un contact group on somalia and the un sanctions committee .
in recent weeks , the government has reconfirmed its commitment to aiding somalia , most recently at the african union summit in kampala .
german foreign minister guido westerwelle said that the training of police in somalia was a " substantial contribution " to stabilizing the country .
ulrich delius argues however that all the projects for training security forces will continue to have no effect until politicians start to " understand the root of the problems in somalia . "
author : catherine bolsover editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de somalia taking center stage at african union summit somalia is once again dominating the agenda at the biannual summit of african leaders .
experts agree that the tactics need to change in somalia in order for peace to return to the country .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- investigation opens into german mercenaries in somalia the public prosecutor in the german city of muenster has opened an investigation into reports that a german security firm is sending mercenaries to a somali warlord amid concerns the deal violates un sanctions .
-lrb- 26.05.2010 -rrb- experts say west needs to change half-hearted approach to somalia a conference on somalia is being convened by the united nations in istanbul with the aim of showing support for the somali people .
but observers say the west 's half-hearted approach is doing more harm than good .
-lrb- 21.05.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think training somali police will help restore order ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live politik direkt we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de peacekeeping -pipe- 30.07.2010 hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the somali police were trained in ethiopia , funded by germany almost 1,000 somali police have gone missing after their training was financed by the german government .
it is feared these officers will now join forces with the islamist militants al-shabaab . in september 2009 , the german government released $ 1 million -lrb- 760,000 euros -rrb- of funding to train somali police officers .
the training took place in ethiopia , and the new recruits were equipped with uniforms , weapons and knowledge with the aim of sending them back into somalia to try and keep peace in the fractured country .
two months after the completion of this training , almost 1,000 new police officers have reportedly disappeared en route to the somali capital mogadishu .
it is thought highly likely that these deserters have left to join opposition islamist militia in somalia .
in a statement , the german foreign office confirmed that funds were released to train somali police , and that in may 2010 , 925 trained officers were transported to somalia under ethiopian surveillance .
they did not comment on whether the police had deserted or not .
' training the opposition ' currently , the transitional somali government is struggling to suppress the militia , including al-qaeda sympathisers al-shabaab , who control as much as two-thirds of the country .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opposition militia control two-thirds of somalia germany is one of several countries who have committed to training security personnel as in indirect method of trying to help , without military intervention .
however , according to ulrich delius from the society for threatened peoples , the problem is that most of these newly trained recruits " leave after a few months " to go and work for the armed opposition .
" you have to ensure that these people really stay in the official army or police , " delius told deutsche welle .
" otherwise you are just training the people you will be fighting in a few months . "
a report published by the head of the un monitoring group on somalia , dumisani kumalo in 2008 , said 80 percent of trained security officers deserted their posts , taking with them their weapons , uniforms and the acquired knowledge .
reasons for desertion at a time when the transitional government is barely keeping a hold on the north of somalia , deserters may feel they are better off siding with the militants than the government .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : weapons have become valuable commodities " no one is sure who will be the government of tomorrow … so they are switching to survive , " delius said .
" also , you need a weapon and whether you get it from the police or from the armed opposition , it does not matter . "
he added that money was another strong incentive for joining the militants , as " somali warlords often offer more money than the official army or police . "
in this case , german media reports that the somali police were waiting for their pay from the german government before they disappeared .
another reason for discontent may be due to the fact that the training took place in ethiopia – a country with a long , bloody history with somalia .
" there 's a very strong feeling against ethiopia in all parts of somali society , " said delius .
stabilization the german government has come under fire for not only partnering with ethiopia , but also according to some sources , bypassing the correct united nations procedures and ignoring sanctions against somalia .
however , the foreign ministry said in a statement that it had informed both the un contact group on somalia and the un sanctions committee .
in recent weeks , the government has reconfirmed its commitment to aiding somalia , most recently at the african union summit in kampala .
german foreign minister guido westerwelle said that the training of police in somalia was a " substantial contribution " to stabilizing the country .
ulrich delius argues however that all the projects for training security forces will continue to have no effect until politicians start to " understand the root of the problems in somalia . "
author : catherine bolsover editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de somalia taking center stage at african union summit somalia is once again dominating the agenda at the biannual summit of african leaders .
experts agree that the tactics need to change in somalia in order for peace to return to the country .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- investigation opens into german mercenaries in somalia the public prosecutor in the german city of muenster has opened an investigation into reports that a german security firm is sending mercenaries to a somali warlord amid concerns the deal violates un sanctions .
-lrb- 26.05.2010 -rrb- experts say west needs to change half-hearted approach to somalia a conference on somalia is being convened by the united nations in istanbul with the aim of showing support for the somali people .
but observers say the west 's half-hearted approach is doing more harm than good .
-lrb- 21.05.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think training somali police will help restore order ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live life at gitmo dw-tv visits guantanamo bay for a closer look at the infamous detention camp the report as video on demand learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live challenging talks us secretary of state hillary clinton faces a difficult task at the middle east peace talks .
watch the video afghan elections the us commander in afghanistan , general petraeus , wants more nato troops ahead of elections .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
afghanistan german soldiers use humanitarian methods to gain the population 's support in char dara district .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- 05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live stock exchange today in history 1818 : " stille nacht , heilige nacht " � silent night , holy © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates 05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live quadriga - the international talk show we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1841 : the birth of mass tourism dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- 05 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- 05 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' german pop ' homepage somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- 05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live quadriga - the international talk show we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week brain drain , jobs and headscarves listen live stock exchange today in history 1841 : the birth of mass tourism dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- 05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback have google 's actions concerned you ?
do you worry about online data protection ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook energy researchers hope nuclear fusion reactors could put an end to the world 's energy problems .
endless energy health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
quiz take the quiz - win an ipad !
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback have google 's actions concerned you ?
do you worry about online data protection ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook energy researchers hope nuclear fusion reactors could put an end to the world 's energy problems .
endless energy health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
quiz take the quiz - win an ipad !
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- feedback have google 's actions concerned you ?
do you worry about online data protection ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- feedback to what extent should berlin hinder the process of gentrification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live glaubenssachen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live arts meet some of the people who are transforming germany 's ruhr region .
singer riccardo doppio graffiti artist danijel brekalo architect gabriele frielinghaus designer constanze alef photography an italian photo project aims to break down barriers between generations and cultures .
listen to the report picture gallery podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- feedback are megacities monsters or marvels ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 health the world health organization has published its first report on neglected tropical diseases .
dr. albis gabrielli at the who headquarters in geneva talks about neglected diseases in asia asia compact join us on facebook !
afghanistan the high peace council appointed by president karzai is supposed to talk to the taliban .
afghanistan analyst thomas ruttig in kabul talks about the council 's mandate and its chances october asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 14.10.10 religious minorities face persecution in myanmar who publishes first report on neglected tropical diseases asia ’ s wayne rooney scores in germany podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters pakistan the catastrophe click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- feedback are megacities monsters or marvels ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 india scandals india is reeling from a series of scandals related to the commonwealth games .
murali krishnan talks about the latest arrests listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 30.11.10 visit to yeonpyeong maldives fear global warming delhi games scandal widens podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online november asia quiz quiz of the month © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bangladesh garment workers fight for higher wages in bangladesh , textile workers who produce clothes for western brands are fighting for an immediate pay rise .
violent protests recently erupted in the industrial zone of ashulia near the capital dhaka .
-lrb- 16.07.2010 -rrb- workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- 9799 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media singapore polls as singapore votes , not much change is likely with the people 's action party expected to win cherian george , adjunct senior research fellow at the institute of policy studies in singapore , talks about the likely outcome north korea amnesty international paints a horrifying picture of conditions in north korea 's prison camps .
ai 's asia pacific director sam zarifi says north korea 's camp system has expanded listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 06.05.11 pakistan faces international criticism singapore gears up for polls mixed emotions in us about china 's military growth podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters militancy will southeast asian extremist groups retaliate to avenge bin laden 's death ?
sidney jones from the international crisis group explains how close ties are between al qaeda and the indonesia-based jemaah islamiyah -lrb- ji -rrb- © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de peacekeeping -pipe- 30.07.2010 hundreds of german-financed somali police officers go missing großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the somali police were trained in ethiopia , funded by germany almost 1,000 somali police have gone missing after their training was financed by the german government .
it is feared these officers will now join forces with the islamist militants al-shabaab . in september 2009 , the german government released $ 1 million -lrb- 760,000 euros -rrb- of funding to train somali police officers .
the training took place in ethiopia , and the new recruits were equipped with uniforms , weapons and knowledge with the aim of sending them back into somalia to try and keep peace in the fractured country .
two months after the completion of this training , almost 1,000 new police officers have reportedly disappeared en route to the somali capital mogadishu .
it is thought highly likely that these deserters have left to join opposition islamist militia in somalia .
in a statement , the german foreign office confirmed that funds were released to train somali police , and that in may 2010 , 925 trained officers were transported to somalia under ethiopian surveillance .
they did not comment on whether the police had deserted or not .
' training the opposition ' currently , the transitional somali government is struggling to suppress the militia , including al-qaeda sympathisers al-shabaab , who control as much as two-thirds of the country .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : opposition militia control two-thirds of somalia germany is one of several countries who have committed to training security personnel as in indirect method of trying to help , without military intervention .
however , according to ulrich delius from the society for threatened peoples , the problem is that most of these newly trained recruits " leave after a few months " to go and work for the armed opposition .
" you have to ensure that these people really stay in the official army or police , " delius told deutsche welle .
" otherwise you are just training the people you will be fighting in a few months . "
a report published by the head of the un monitoring group on somalia , dumisani kumalo in 2008 , said 80 percent of trained security officers deserted their posts , taking with them their weapons , uniforms and the acquired knowledge .
reasons for desertion at a time when the transitional government is barely keeping a hold on the north of somalia , deserters may feel they are better off siding with the militants than the government .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : weapons have become valuable commodities " no one is sure who will be the government of tomorrow … so they are switching to survive , " delius said .
" also , you need a weapon and whether you get it from the police or from the armed opposition , it does not matter . "
he added that money was another strong incentive for joining the militants , as " somali warlords often offer more money than the official army or police . "
in this case , german media reports that the somali police were waiting for their pay from the german government before they disappeared .
another reason for discontent may be due to the fact that the training took place in ethiopia – a country with a long , bloody history with somalia .
" there 's a very strong feeling against ethiopia in all parts of somali society , " said delius .
stabilization the german government has come under fire for not only partnering with ethiopia , but also according to some sources , bypassing the correct united nations procedures and ignoring sanctions against somalia .
however , the foreign ministry said in a statement that it had informed both the un contact group on somalia and the un sanctions committee .
in recent weeks , the government has reconfirmed its commitment to aiding somalia , most recently at the african union summit in kampala .
german foreign minister guido westerwelle said that the training of police in somalia was a " substantial contribution " to stabilizing the country .
ulrich delius argues however that all the projects for training security forces will continue to have no effect until politicians start to " understand the root of the problems in somalia . "
author : catherine bolsover editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de somalia taking center stage at african union summit somalia is once again dominating the agenda at the biannual summit of african leaders .
experts agree that the tactics need to change in somalia in order for peace to return to the country .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- investigation opens into german mercenaries in somalia the public prosecutor in the german city of muenster has opened an investigation into reports that a german security firm is sending mercenaries to a somali warlord amid concerns the deal violates un sanctions .
-lrb- 26.05.2010 -rrb- experts say west needs to change half-hearted approach to somalia a conference on somalia is being convened by the united nations in istanbul with the aim of showing support for the somali people .
but observers say the west 's half-hearted approach is doing more harm than good .
-lrb- 21.05.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. tourism germany 's north sea coast boasts some of the longest and most attractive beaches in europe .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
kremlin human rights adviser quits amidst retrograde rights climate -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de russia -pipe- 30.07.2010 kremlin human rights adviser quits amidst retrograde rights climate großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : pamfilova had grown tired of being persecuted the kremlin 's top human rights adviser has stepped down in the face of hostility from a pro-kremlin , nationalist youth group .
ella pamfilova had fought to make russia more just , but often came up against a brick wall . the chairman of russia 's presidential council on human rights resigned friday in a move widely seen as a protest against the deteriorating rights situation in russia . ella pamfilova , the activist who chaired president dmitry medvedev 's council on human rights and oversaw the development of civil society , resigned amidst heavy fire from the nashi nationalist youth group , as well as strong disagreement with medvedev 's human rights policies . " she wanted to resign because she had simply had enough of the persecution that was circling around her , " pamfilova 's fellow council member , irina yasina , told the interfax news agency . accused of slander the pro-kremlin youth movement nashi had threatened to sue pamfilova for slander after she criticized the group for an exhibition staged at its annual summer camp on lake seliger . the exhibition featured images of the heads of russian liberal leaders , such as 83-year-old human-rights activist lyudmila alexeyeva , stuck on stakes in nazi helmets . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the naschi youth group welcomed pamfilova 's resignation when images of the exhibition surfaced after president medvedev 's visit to the camp , pamfilova told the echo of moscow radio station she was " frightened " to realize " that these guys will come to power in a number of years . " " that will be terrible , " she said , adding , " that is intolerable - more so because the president has been there , at seliger . "
pamfilova , it seems , saw no way to continue working for the kremlin , which lends its full moral support to the nashi youth group .
she also accused the movement of burning books . " as chairman of the council , unfortunately i do not know what to do about this , apart from speak out and say that this is an outrage .
if these cynical guys who do n't care about anything , allow themselves anything , persecute people , because they know that adult men in high positions protect them , then that is terrible for the country , " she warned . ' men in high positions ' the day before pamfilova 's resignation , medvedev signed legislation to strengthen the fsb , the kgb 's secret-service successor - a move pamfilova 's council deemed the " rebirth of the unlawful and worst practices of a totalitarian state , with the goal of seeding fear and mistrust in the people . " she did not give specific reasons for her resignation , but said she planned to change her " sphere of activity " and that it would " definitely not be politics or state service . " pamfilova said that her decision to leave her post was not taken overnight . the activist had told european union officials in march that russia 's democratic institutions were underdeveloped and that there had been no significant progress in civil rights . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : activists had hoped medvedev would improve russia 's human rights the kremlin suggested in a statement to reporters that pamfilova 's departure was long in coming . " this is not the first time that this issue has appeared , " said medvedev 's spokeswoman natalya timakova . human rights groups have expressed their deep regret at pamfilova 's departure .
author : geert groot koerkamp -lrb- dl / ap / afp / reuters -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de russian upper house increases kgb successor 's power , to activists ' dismay president medvedev 's bill to increase secret police powers has won parliament 's approval .
human rights activists fear the government may use the law against the opposition , returning to a soviet-style police state .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- chechen activists still live in fear a year after colleague 's murder one year ago , one of chechnya 's best-known human rights activists was mysteriously abducted and murdered .
natalya estemirova 's death is still fresh in the minds of her colleagues , who fear it could happen again .
-lrb- 15.07.2010 -rrb- sakharov prize winner calls on eu to put more pressure on russia one of the leaders of the human rights group memorial used his acceptance speech for the sakharov prize in the european parliament to call on the european union to put more pressure on russia .
-lrb- 16.12.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress foreign doctors braving libyan conflict to care for patients in nalut listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with the week we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
politics german opposition parties fail to block a possible deal to sell tanks to saudi arabia .
picasso on loan to the palestinians feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.11.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- feedback are a turkish-german who has moved to turkey ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
travel take a close-up look at some of europe 's most exciting cities .
bern , switzerland freiburg , germany jerez de la frontera , spain oxford , britain bordeaux , france dw-tv : euromaxx cuisine get a taste of europe with these gourmet recipes .
swedish crispbread saddle of rabbit with asparagus risotto rutabaga soup dumplings with meat filling sweet-savory pheasant from leeds dw-tv : euromaxx podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 12 - favorite alt-rockers ja , panik are back subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : germans work to retain control of online personal information generational gap divides opinion on internet privacy merkel 's home to appear on google street view facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries german foreign minister joins criticism of google 's mapping program privacy -pipe- 30.07.2010 google cleared of privacy breach in uk , german inquiries continue großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : uk authorities said google 's inadvertant data collection has n't caused any damage british authorities said there is no evidence that google has caused " individual detriment , " but experts say this will have little influence on ongoing investigations in germany great britain 's data protection agency , the information commissioner 's office , cleared google on thursday of having collected " meaningful personal details " involved in the company ’ s street view wireless internet privacy breach . " there is also no evidence as yet that the data captured by google has caused or could cause any individual detriment , " a spokesperson for the organization said in a statement . in may , after investigations by german privacy officials , google admitted to having inadvertently collected various bits of data , possibly including e-mails , documents and other information being passed through unsecured wireless internet access points around the globe . " we welcome the news that the data protection authorities in the uk have found that the payload data contained no meaningful personal information , " a google spokesperson said in a statement .
" as we said when we announced our mistake , we did not want and have never used any payload data in our products or services . " the company had sent out its cars for its online mapping service , google street view , which provides a street-level perspective on streets in many countries around the world .
the service is not yet operational in germany due to privacy concerns , but is available around the world including countries like spain , france , the united kingdom and the united states . the california company remains under investigation over the breach in the united states , australia , spain and germany , among others . " no direct impact " on german inquiry bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : google street view is not currently available in germany but it and privacy experts said the british decision will likely have little influence on the ongoing german investigation . " there is no direct impact , " said thomas hoeren , a professor of media and telecommunications law at the university of muenster in western germany .
" the british decision only has a kind of persuasive authority .
however , the british supervision authorities are known to be far more liberal than the german authorities . " ross anderson , a professor of security engineering at the university of cambridge , agreed , noting that the uk has taken an " extremely lax view of privacy enforcement " since its inception in the 1980s . " the german response should be a laugh or a shrug , " he told deutsche welle . " i think google is pretty smart , " he added .
" they know that europe is the world 's privacy regulator .
america does n't care , and nowhere else is big enough to matter .
and they know that germany makes the weather on privacy in europe .
that 's why the google privacy team is in munich . " ulrich boerger , a privacy lawyer in hamburg , said he found the british conclusion puzzling . " that is a surprising to ask if -lsb- the data -rsb- could cause detriment , " he said .
" under german law the mere fact that someone has my data is unlawful .
what does that mean , ' no detriment ? '
no secrets ?
no intimate information discovered ?
i think that ’ s the wrong question to ask .
one can never know what may lead to detriment . " germans regard google as " too powerful " bildunterschrift : google street view provides high-level photographic detail further , hoeren added that even if british authorities have given their blessing to google , german government officials continue to still feel that they can not fully trust google . " google has a pr problem , " he told deutsche welle .
" emotionally , people regard google as being very big , too powerful , too un-transparent .
every small mistake or ambiguity of google is immediately discussed in a very emotional way .
but the main problem behind these strategies is the market power of google and its control - for instance by antitrust law . " despite proclaiming google 's potential for wrongdoing to be " unlikely " in the united kingdom , british authorities still noted that other data protection agencies around the globe may still find wrongdoing . " as we have only seen samples of the records collected in the uk , " the ico 's statement said , " we recognize that other data protection authorities conducting a detailed analysis of all the payload data collected in their jurisdictions may nevertheless find samples of information which can be linked to identifiable individuals . " author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- google relaunches street view driving in europe google 's street view cars are set to hit the road again in several countries this week , but not in germany where their welcome remains lukewarm .
-lrb- 12.07.2010 -rrb- germany slams google for inadvertent data collection germany has rebuked internet search giant google after the company admitted it accidentally collected personal data about unsecured wi-fi networks with its street view mapping system .
-lrb- 15.05.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- feedback to what extent should berlin hinder the process of gentrification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
picture gallery christmas markets holiday cheer ís easy to come by during the advent season in germany .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- feedback to what extent should berlin hinder the process of gentrification ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live food and drink taste europe 's highlights .
specialty beer from sylt oyster safari in denmark a meal in provence podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
clip no. 1 - luis und laserpower clip no. 2 - abel & cain clip no. 3 - baby benzin clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
travel take a close-up look at some of europe 's most exciting cities .
oxford , britain schwerin , germany las palmas , spain reykjavik , iceland darmstadt , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.10.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live kyrgyzstan 's chaos kyrgyzstan goes to the polls on sunday but there are doubts that the outcome will ease the tensions .
watch the video taliban tactics nato convoys are increasingly coming under taliban attacks along the afghan-pakistani border watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.11.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the top 100 listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de society -pipe- 30.07.2010 berlin cultural centers become casualties of gentrification großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : scenes like this are becoming rarer in berlin berlin 's edgy artist communities are being squeezed out by shiny new hotels , trendy bars and designer stores .
it 's a phenomenon common to big cities - but should berlin do something to stop gentrification ? formerly a six-storey department store , tacheles was taken over by artists who squatted the abandoned building after the berlin wall came down .
the crumbling facade is berlin 's most famous symbol of alternative culture , housing 30 artist studios and galleries , a theater , bars and clubs . but like other autonomous spaces and cultural centers located on prime real estate , tacheles is feeling the heat . squatters spared building from demolition tacheles is a maze of metal sculptures , graffiti-covered walls , bars and artist studios .
in the early 1990s , it was squatters who saved the building from being demolished , creating a cultural landmark for berlin - a highlight mentioned in every guidebook that draws over 300,000 visitors each year . " in ' 98 a friend of mine from berlin took me here and i found it fantastic and i think it 's a shame what 's going on , " said marcio coehlo from sao paolo of his first visit to tacheles .
" i 've been following the fight about tacheles over the years . " the investment company fundus group bought the property in the 1990s , intending to develop the site down the track .
in the meantime they negotiated a 10-year lease with the artists , charging a symbolic rent of one german mark -lrb- 50 euro cents -rrb- per year .
that lease expired at the end of 2008 , and the tacheles communities were served an eviction notice in 2009 . the berliner morgenpost newspaper reported in early july that due to bankruptcy the property had been taken over by hsh nordbank , which then opened insolvency proceedings .
the bank reportedly intends to sell the 25,000-square-meter -lrb- 270,000-square-foot -rrb- property , and refuses to sell the tacheles building and grounds - which make up just 1,200 square meters - separately . deutsche welle contacted hsh nordbank and the administrator , but they declined to comment . bildunterschrift : tacheles attracts thousands of tourists ' cities belong to all of us ' between 70 and 100 artists are doing residencies at tacheles at any one time .
but this opportunity will be lost if tacheles is shut down . according to matthias bernt , political scientist and gentrification expert from the helmholtz center for environmental research in leipzig , there are always winners and losers in the process of gentrification . " in this case the losers are very clear - low income artists , " said bernt .
" it ’ s a culture that 's not commercialized , and the winners are banks and real estate speculators . " linda cerna , spokesperson for the tacheles artists , has been organizing regular demonstrations and a petition with over 80,000 signatures to protest the impending eviction .
she said that " cities should n't only be properties where private investors make money , but cities belong to all of us . " cerna said that " investors and banks - especially a bank which is saved by tax money - should have a responsibility for what is going on in the society , and not only think about their profit . " the city of berlin is 60 billion euros -lrb- $ 78 billion -rrb- in debt , and is in no position to buy up prime real estate in the name of culture .
but berlin is also aware that its reputation is built on creativity and culture .
the berlin senate of cultural affairs estimates that creative industries account for more than 20 percent of the city 's gross domestic product . tacheles earmarked for culture according to torsten woehlert , press spokesperson for the berlin senate of cultural affairs , evicting tacheles while the investors wait two or three years for development approval is n't the best move . " it does n't make sense for the artists .
it does n't make sense for the city .
it does n't make sense for the bank .
it does n't make sense for the investor because this will harm the image of tacheles , of the city , of the bank and of the new investor , " said woehlert . the building is safe , because it is heritage-listed , and it must be used for a cultural purpose .
however , that doesn ’ t necessarily mean an arts center - tacheles could also end up being turned into a cinema complex . yet woehlert pointed out that there are dozens of examples in berlin where a private investor enjoys the prestige of having a cultural space in their building , even though they have to lease it for less rent . bildunterschrift : tacheles is slated to remain a cultural center - but " cultural " is a very broad term ' not every investor is a bad one ' this is exactly what happened a few hundred meters down the road at the majestic heritage-listed former post office building .
currently , it 's home to the c / o berlin international photography gallery , but the building was recently sold .
four weeks ago , the gallery was served an eviction notice ; c / o berlin must vacate the premises by march 2011 . mirko nowak , press spokesperson for the c / o berlin gallery , is disappointed at the news and explained that they had had a good five years with the old owner . " not every investor is a bad one .
the old investor or owner of this building opened it for the public and his concept was a mixture between culture , living , offices and hotels , " said nowak . but the new israeli investment group , elad , has different ideas .
they intend to build a hotel and shopping mall on a street where there are already dozens of shops and hotels .
gallery-goers were dismayed to learn of the plans for the gallery and the building . during the annie leibowitz exhibition in 2009 , 120,000 people visited the gallery .
but it 's not just about big-name exhibitions : the c / o berlin international forum for visual dialogues also supports young , up-and-coming photographers and curators . nowak said it 's already proving difficult to find a new , affordable location in berlin 's upwardly mobile mitte district . appeal for berlin to be more selective according to bernt , the political scientist and gentrification expert , it 's too late to prevent mitte from becoming homogenous and gentrified , but the city can still have an influence on the fate of other locations . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : c / o berlin hosts exhibitions by both established and up-and-coming photographers " berlin needs to change its course to not welcoming every kind of investment , but caring more about what the effect on original residents and low-income people is , " said bernt . for tacheles , this would mean that the residents should be included in any development proposals .
despite internal conflicts , the tacheles communities agree about one thing - staying in the building . ludwig eben was one of the first people to squat the tacheles building and has been running cafe zapata on the ground floor since 1992 .
" we 're planning to stay here and we are waiting for the bank to talk with us because we made this tacheles - everybody knows it - and you ca n't just push us away , " he said . aware of how tacheles and c / o berlin contribute to berlin 's cultural cachet , politicians like berlin 's mayor klaus wowereit , german president christian wulff and even members of chancellor angela merkel 's christian democratic union have expressed their support .
but whether this is enough to stop the gentrification juggernaut remains to be seen . author : cinnamon nippard editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- berlin 's last squat ends as legit housing projects flourish in former squat-heaven berlin , the last one closes after a dramatic battle .
the city 's urban make-up is changing , and now a legal alternative to squatting is gaining ground in a city with lots of empty buildings .
-lrb- 21.06.2010 -rrb- r. i. p. kiez - berlin loses local culture to yuppies twenty years after the fall of the berlin wall , the wave of gentrification sweeping the city is irrepresible .
with more and more areas transforming into homogenized yuppy-villes , is this the death of kiezkultur ? -lrb- 04.06.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
culture calendar july happenings from wagner to world music - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
focus on libya libya 's uprising dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a former street child in indonesia gives back to kids in need .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
eu registers provide no clues to bp lobbying uk officials over libya -pipe- americas -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de trans-atlantic relations -pipe- 30.07.2010 eu registers provide no clues to bp lobbying uk officials over libya großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : us senators want to examine possible links between the release of the lockerbie bomber and bp bp 's lobbying of the uk government over a prisoner deal with libya is under investigation by the us senate .
but while the oil giant had to disclose its lobbying efforts in the us , it did n't have to in the eu or the uk . a hearing on the issue was originally scheduled for july 29 , but that has been postponed .
one of the senators involved , robert menendez , said bp and british officials had stonewalled the investigation and some key witnesses had refused to appear .
the us senate foreign relations committee , which wants to find out whether bp 's lobbying british officials played a role in the early release of convicted lockerbie bomber abdelbaset al-megrahi last year , is unlikely to garner any useful information coming from the european union 's official lobbying register .
while bp 's lobbying practices in the us are logged into a mandatory register that is publicly available and updated regularly , no comparable database exists in the eu or in britain .
two years ago , the eu launched a voluntary lobbying register that companies and interest groups can join if they want to .
so far however , most lobbyists have chosen not be logged into the public register .
low registration rate , outdated information " we did a survey about a month ago when the register had been in place for two years and our conclusion is that less than half of all the lobbying organisations that are estimated to be active in brussels are on the register , " erik wesselius of the alliance for lobbying transparency and ethics regulation -lrb- alter-eu -rrb- , a coalition of some 160 organisations campaigning for effective lobbying rules in europe , told deutsche welle .
" so that 's less than 50 percent after two years , that 's not a particularly good performance . "
what 's more , even the limited information that is available in the brussels register is not particularly helpful . " the information is much less precise than in the us register and in many cases the information in the eu register is quite outdated , " said wesselius .
bp is one of the firms that actually chose to join the brussels lobbying register .
but the company 's file in the eu database serves as a good example of the limited usefulness of the information available there .
according to the register , the bp file was last updated in november 2009 .
the last financial information given dates back to 2008 when , according to the public file , bp spent between 400,000 and 450,000 euros -lrb- $ 522,000 - $ 588,000 -rrb- lobbying eu institutions .
details about which institutions were lobbied are not available .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bp 's new american ceo has to deal with the senate investigation the expenditure estimate given by bp is very low , said wesselius , considering that bp spent $ 15 million last year on lobbying the us federal government .
" we have been doubting whether this is the right figure , " he added .
no registry required in britain , where bp is based , there is no publicly available lobbying register at all . however , after a slew of recent lobbying scandals , there is some momentum toward lobbying transparency in the uk .
the country 's three main lobbying umbrella organisations have created the so-called uk public affairs council which is supposed to maintain a register .
but currently the ukpac 's common register on the organization 's website is not publicly accessible .
in a move that would even go beyond attempts of self-regulation of the industry , the new british government has vowed to establish a mandatory register .
but so far no timetable has been set . in the eu , there are also efforts to create a more reliable lobbying register .
currently , no one even knows how many lobbyists are active in brussels .
" nobody can say for sure , " said wesselius .
" we have an estimate of 15,000 to 20,000 , but it 's very hard to say . "
us register a model for the eu as a model for an improved eu lobbying register wesselius points to the us .
there , lobbyists are not only required to register , but they must also update their information on a quarterly basis .
and all of this information is publicly available .
" we can tell you how much money overall is being spent and we can tell you what issues and what bills are being lobbied on by a company like bp , " dave levinthal , communications director at the center for responsive politics which maintains the database opensecrets.org , told deutsche welle .
bildunterschrift : bp has been hammered for its handling of the oil spill in the gulf for months " for example if you look at 2009 there was a piece of legislation in the us senate called the oil spill prevention act of 2009 , " said levinthal .
" bp lobbied on that bill .
it also lobbied on the clean water restoration act , senate bill 787 . "
in the eu or the uk , such detailed information on bp 's or any other company 's lobbying efforts is simply not available .
compared to the us , lobbyists in europe face very little regulation .
" so far they have been able to do to their thing quite unencumbered , " said wesselius .
despite efforts to improve the eu 's lobbying register , chances for a quick success are slim , noted wesselius .
" basically what we need in the eu is a big scandal , " he says , adding that in the us lobbying laws were always tightened after huge public scandals .
for the us senators investigating the lobbying of the british government by bp in the lockerbie case that means they will have to get their information elsewhere .
in brussels and britain there is simply no public record of bp 's dealings with uk officials . author : michael knigge editor : rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de us senate to probe possible links between bp and release of the lockerbie bomber already under fire for the oil spill , bp has admitted lobbying the uk government over a controversial prisoner release deal with libya .
while the us senate is investigating , experts are n't surprised .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- bp boss tony hayward to step down as firm seeks to repair image bp has announced that its embattled chief executive tony hayward is leaving .
hayward , savaged for his handling of the gulf of mexico oil leak , is resigning as the british-based company strives to rebuild its us image .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- www-links bp 's lobbying profile at opensecrets.org bp 's lobbying profile at the european commission uk public affairs council 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.09.2010 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- feedback should the un human rights committee and its suggestions have more than an advisory , non-binding status ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour musica sacra in marktoberdorf listen live learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
wto ruling the world trade organization rules that china 's export restrictions on raw materials are illegal .
watch the video cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series a german musician brings change with song and crowd funding .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 30.07.2010 un says dialogue with israel on human rights is ' difficult ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : un also advocates investigation after israel 's flotilla raid reviewing the performance of four members of a global rights covenant , the un human rights committee has criticized israel 's handling of the occupied palestinian territories - areas israel says do n't apply to the deal . un officials in geneva are concerned about the major human rights violations in gaza and the west bank , and made this clear to israel during a regular report on the country 's progress as a signatory of the international covenant on civil and political rights .
however , israeli officials say the treaty does not apply to these territories under international law , and that any problems there should be discounted , unless they befall jewish settlers in the regions .
" we have maintained our position on the applicability of the covenant , " un human rights committee member and former french judge , christine chanet , told a news briefing on friday .
" we are stronger because the international court of justice has said we were right on this position , " she added , referring to a 2004 advisory ruling .
" torture , extrajudicial killings , the demolition of houses … each state is responsible for the people under their jurisdiction , and they ca n't say gaza and the west bank is not under theirs .
if you go to the west bank you will see -lrb- israeli -rrb- military everywhere . "
chanet described it as " very difficult to have a real dialogue " with israel on the issue .
the rights committee also called on the israeli government to end its military blockade of the gaza strip , and to allow an international investigation into the deadly military raid of a gaza-bound aid flotilla in international waters in may .
these demands are non-binding , but pile more pressure on israel to try to ascertain how nine turkish people were killed as they tried to defy the gaza blockade .
cameroon , colombia , estonia also under review bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the review said women 's rights are neglected around the world the three other members under review might have been glad to be in such high profile company , with the israeli issue rather relegating their problems to the sidelines .
estonia was the only eu-member represented at the meeting , and its third report was received largely positively by the un human rights committee .
the country was , however , asked to do more to try to improve gender equality , particularly in the workplace .
" estonia is one of the more advanced countries of the newcomers in the european union , " committee member krister thelin , from sweeden , said .
" and we would expect that they fairly quickly would come to grips with this , which is a structural flaw you can find in nordic countries - including my own - and others .
" so i would n't be too overly concerned about this , but the fact that we do point it out is certainly something they should take on board and work with . "
cameroon also came under fire for more serious gender-related problems , including the continued practices of female genital mutilation and polygamy in parts of the country .
meanwhile , in colombia , the committee said it was concerned about forced displacement , saying sexual violence and the threat of it was one of the main reasons for people , primarily women and children , fleeing their homes .
the international covenant on civil and political rights now has 166 signatories worldwide , all of whom submit regular reports to the un for review , detailing their progress in improving living conditions for all their citizens .
author : imogen foulkes -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ashton concludes israel visit , promising eu aid to lift gaza blockade top eu diplomat catherine ashton concluded her israel visit , demanding israel lift its gaza blockade and offering europe 's help to secure borders and rebuild the strip .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- how right are europe 's human rights policies ?
one of the european union 's main tenets is the promotion of democracy and human rights , but citing libya as an example , amnesty international says the bloc 's deeds do n't always live up to its words .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
security concerns there is a growing connection between security and natural resources .
listen to the interview podcast series life without the arts would be a lot less colorful , but guides like lukas help experience the arts .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
naked lunch , berlin style -pipe- culture column -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de culture -pipe- 30.07.2010 naked lunch , berlin style großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for some berliners , summer means ditching the clothes and strutting around without a care in the world .
there 's nothing wrong with that per se , but for bashful ex-pat brits , it can be a truly miserable experience . i recall one summer a couple of years ago lying in the grass in berlin 's tiergarten park , enjoying the fragrant breeze on my face , the warm smell of fresh summer grass and the playful twitter of birds in the trees .
my meditations were disrupted by a male voice asking , " have you got a light ? " i awoke from my daydream and looked up to see a rather hefty middle-aged man sporting at least five bellies standing above me holding a cigarette .
nothing unusual in this you might think - except he was stark naked .
i coughed and spluttered for a moment , rather bashfully rummaged through my bag and held out a lighter in his vague direction while suddenly becoming most interested in intently studying the daisy to my left . after lighting his cigarette , this colossal lump of nakedness then saw fit to stand there for a further 10 minutes discussing the weather .
given that it is rather rude not to make eye contact with someone with whom you are engaged in conversation , i did rather feel obliged to cast the occasional furtive glance in his direction .
however , given that i was lying in the grass and he was standing above me , all i ever seemed to make eye contact with was his looming collection of dangly bits and pieces .
most disturbing . this bold example of nakedness is known as fkk - freikoerperkultur , or naked body culture - and your average german does n't have a problem with it .
even if they themselves do n't strut around in their birthday suit all summer , they seldom seem to notice , much less comment on , other people 's nakedness .
at this time of year , when the temperature has risen at least four million degrees , most berliners are launching themselves into the nearest body of water .
and a good number do so without a stitch on . visit one of berlin 's many lakes -lrb- or indeed some parks -rrb- and thrown into the mix of bathers wearing sensible swimwear , you 'll also see mountains of naked flesh .
some lakes and beaches have designated nudist areas while many others are mixed .
of course this open attitude to nudity in germany is a very healthy one ; small children can splash about in the lake with no clothes on without their parents fearing that a paedophile will jump out from behind the nearest bush while granny and grandpa can enjoy an early evening dip au naturelle quite content with each others ' sagging bodies . bildunterschrift : germans in touch with nature in the 1970s ... brits should enter at their own risk the first fkk club was founded in essen in 1898 with the first nudist beach -lrb- on sylt -rrb- welcoming naked bathers in 1920 .
while attitudes to fkk became increasingly conservative in west germany throughout the 70s and 80s , their east german counterparts still revelled in the feeling of freedom that comes with prancing around in the sun with all their bits and pieces jiggling about .
it has absolutely nothing to do with sex and more to do with man in touch with nature ... or such other primitive nonsense . of course , as a brit , while i find the concept of fkk harmless , in practice it is highly embarrassing .
we have no culture of public displays of nudity in the uk unless you can class the occasional streaker at a cricket match in the 1970s as a healthy display of fkk .
on the contrary , nudity is something to be sniggered at by the prudish brits .
after all , we grew up with benny hill and the carry on films ; types of comedy which taught us that big wobbly breasts were hilarious and the word " knickers " among the funniest in the language . a friend of mine once admonished me for hiding behind a newspaper when some naked swimmers walked past with the rather flimsy justification that " the ducks are naked and that does n't embarrass you . "
no dear , but then again , when was the last time you saw a duck waddling down the street in a three-piece suit ? with this summer being hotter than ever , more and more berliners are trekking to the shady tranquility of the city 's lakes with a good proportion content to do so with no clothes on whatsoever .
next time you 're there , take a break from casting a peep at the naked breasts beside you and indulge in some brit spotting instead ; they 're the ones tittering and spluttering behind their sandwiches at the sight of someone 's bottom . neale lytollis still enjoys a swim at the lake ... dressed in sensible trousers , a duffel coat and balaclava . editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last week 's column when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- swiss want to do away with bare sightings one wild beast the swiss do n't want to see swinging down the trail towards them is a naked german hiker .
-lrb- 10.02.2009 -rrb- east germany 's fascination with flesh gets more exposure a new book detailing east germany 's passion for nudity is set to be launched in typically candid style just weeks after a documentary exposed the communist regime 's secret porn industry .
-lrb- 28.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic visit the world 's largest nudist colony in southern france dw-radio : inside europe www-links missed a ' scene in berlin ' ?
read past editions here feedback does public nudity make you blush or are you a carefree fkk fanatic ?
send us an e-mail with your opinion !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live arts.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live social media become a fan follow deutsche welle on the online interactive platform facebook .
word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view link berlin culture crawl blogger lily philipose bases each post on conversations with berliners on what they 're up to . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
naked lunch , berlin style -pipe- culture column -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de culture -pipe- 30.07.2010 naked lunch , berlin style großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for some berliners , summer means ditching the clothes and strutting around without a care in the world .
there 's nothing wrong with that per se , but for bashful ex-pat brits , it can be a truly miserable experience . i recall one summer a couple of years ago lying in the grass in berlin 's tiergarten park , enjoying the fragrant breeze on my face , the warm smell of fresh summer grass and the playful twitter of birds in the trees .
my meditations were disrupted by a male voice asking , " have you got a light ? " i awoke from my daydream and looked up to see a rather hefty middle-aged man sporting at least five bellies standing above me holding a cigarette .
nothing unusual in this you might think - except he was stark naked .
i coughed and spluttered for a moment , rather bashfully rummaged through my bag and held out a lighter in his vague direction while suddenly becoming most interested in intently studying the daisy to my left . after lighting his cigarette , this colossal lump of nakedness then saw fit to stand there for a further 10 minutes discussing the weather .
given that it is rather rude not to make eye contact with someone with whom you are engaged in conversation , i did rather feel obliged to cast the occasional furtive glance in his direction .
however , given that i was lying in the grass and he was standing above me , all i ever seemed to make eye contact with was his looming collection of dangly bits and pieces .
most disturbing . this bold example of nakedness is known as fkk - freikoerperkultur , or naked body culture - and your average german does n't have a problem with it .
even if they themselves do n't strut around in their birthday suit all summer , they seldom seem to notice , much less comment on , other people 's nakedness .
at this time of year , when the temperature has risen at least four million degrees , most berliners are launching themselves into the nearest body of water .
and a good number do so without a stitch on . visit one of berlin 's many lakes -lrb- or indeed some parks -rrb- and thrown into the mix of bathers wearing sensible swimwear , you 'll also see mountains of naked flesh .
some lakes and beaches have designated nudist areas while many others are mixed .
of course this open attitude to nudity in germany is a very healthy one ; small children can splash about in the lake with no clothes on without their parents fearing that a paedophile will jump out from behind the nearest bush while granny and grandpa can enjoy an early evening dip au naturelle quite content with each others ' sagging bodies . bildunterschrift : germans in touch with nature in the 1970s ... brits should enter at their own risk the first fkk club was founded in essen in 1898 with the first nudist beach -lrb- on sylt -rrb- welcoming naked bathers in 1920 .
while attitudes to fkk became increasingly conservative in west germany throughout the 70s and 80s , their east german counterparts still revelled in the feeling of freedom that comes with prancing around in the sun with all their bits and pieces jiggling about .
it has absolutely nothing to do with sex and more to do with man in touch with nature ... or such other primitive nonsense . of course , as a brit , while i find the concept of fkk harmless , in practice it is highly embarrassing .
we have no culture of public displays of nudity in the uk unless you can class the occasional streaker at a cricket match in the 1970s as a healthy display of fkk .
on the contrary , nudity is something to be sniggered at by the prudish brits .
after all , we grew up with benny hill and the carry on films ; types of comedy which taught us that big wobbly breasts were hilarious and the word " knickers " among the funniest in the language . a friend of mine once admonished me for hiding behind a newspaper when some naked swimmers walked past with the rather flimsy justification that " the ducks are naked and that does n't embarrass you . "
no dear , but then again , when was the last time you saw a duck waddling down the street in a three-piece suit ? with this summer being hotter than ever , more and more berliners are trekking to the shady tranquility of the city 's lakes with a good proportion content to do so with no clothes on whatsoever .
next time you 're there , take a break from casting a peep at the naked breasts beside you and indulge in some brit spotting instead ; they 're the ones tittering and spluttering behind their sandwiches at the sight of someone 's bottom . neale lytollis still enjoys a swim at the lake ... dressed in sensible trousers , a duffel coat and balaclava . editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last week 's column when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- swiss want to do away with bare sightings one wild beast the swiss do n't want to see swinging down the trail towards them is a naked german hiker .
-lrb- 10.02.2009 -rrb- east germany 's fascination with flesh gets more exposure a new book detailing east germany 's passion for nudity is set to be launched in typically candid style just weeks after a documentary exposed the communist regime 's secret porn industry .
-lrb- 28.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic visit the world 's largest nudist colony in southern france dw-radio : inside europe www-links missed a ' scene in berlin ' ?
read past editions here feedback does public nudity make you blush or are you a carefree fkk fanatic ?
send us an e-mail with your opinion !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live partner npr berlin national public radio provides noncommercial news , talk , and entertainment from the us .
social media become a fan follow deutsche welle on the online interactive platform facebook .
word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view link berlin culture crawl blogger lily philipose bases each post on conversations with berliners on what they 're up to . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
naked lunch , berlin style -pipe- culture column -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de culture -pipe- 30.07.2010 naked lunch , berlin style großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for some berliners , summer means ditching the clothes and strutting around without a care in the world .
there 's nothing wrong with that per se , but for bashful ex-pat brits , it can be a truly miserable experience . i recall one summer a couple of years ago lying in the grass in berlin 's tiergarten park , enjoying the fragrant breeze on my face , the warm smell of fresh summer grass and the playful twitter of birds in the trees .
my meditations were disrupted by a male voice asking , " have you got a light ? " i awoke from my daydream and looked up to see a rather hefty middle-aged man sporting at least five bellies standing above me holding a cigarette .
nothing unusual in this you might think - except he was stark naked .
i coughed and spluttered for a moment , rather bashfully rummaged through my bag and held out a lighter in his vague direction while suddenly becoming most interested in intently studying the daisy to my left . after lighting his cigarette , this colossal lump of nakedness then saw fit to stand there for a further 10 minutes discussing the weather .
given that it is rather rude not to make eye contact with someone with whom you are engaged in conversation , i did rather feel obliged to cast the occasional furtive glance in his direction .
however , given that i was lying in the grass and he was standing above me , all i ever seemed to make eye contact with was his looming collection of dangly bits and pieces .
most disturbing . this bold example of nakedness is known as fkk - freikoerperkultur , or naked body culture - and your average german does n't have a problem with it .
even if they themselves do n't strut around in their birthday suit all summer , they seldom seem to notice , much less comment on , other people 's nakedness .
at this time of year , when the temperature has risen at least four million degrees , most berliners are launching themselves into the nearest body of water .
and a good number do so without a stitch on . visit one of berlin 's many lakes -lrb- or indeed some parks -rrb- and thrown into the mix of bathers wearing sensible swimwear , you 'll also see mountains of naked flesh .
some lakes and beaches have designated nudist areas while many others are mixed .
of course this open attitude to nudity in germany is a very healthy one ; small children can splash about in the lake with no clothes on without their parents fearing that a paedophile will jump out from behind the nearest bush while granny and grandpa can enjoy an early evening dip au naturelle quite content with each others ' sagging bodies . bildunterschrift : germans in touch with nature in the 1970s ... brits should enter at their own risk the first fkk club was founded in essen in 1898 with the first nudist beach -lrb- on sylt -rrb- welcoming naked bathers in 1920 .
while attitudes to fkk became increasingly conservative in west germany throughout the 70s and 80s , their east german counterparts still revelled in the feeling of freedom that comes with prancing around in the sun with all their bits and pieces jiggling about .
it has absolutely nothing to do with sex and more to do with man in touch with nature ... or such other primitive nonsense . of course , as a brit , while i find the concept of fkk harmless , in practice it is highly embarrassing .
we have no culture of public displays of nudity in the uk unless you can class the occasional streaker at a cricket match in the 1970s as a healthy display of fkk .
on the contrary , nudity is something to be sniggered at by the prudish brits .
after all , we grew up with benny hill and the carry on films ; types of comedy which taught us that big wobbly breasts were hilarious and the word " knickers " among the funniest in the language . a friend of mine once admonished me for hiding behind a newspaper when some naked swimmers walked past with the rather flimsy justification that " the ducks are naked and that does n't embarrass you . "
no dear , but then again , when was the last time you saw a duck waddling down the street in a three-piece suit ? with this summer being hotter than ever , more and more berliners are trekking to the shady tranquility of the city 's lakes with a good proportion content to do so with no clothes on whatsoever .
next time you 're there , take a break from casting a peep at the naked breasts beside you and indulge in some brit spotting instead ; they 're the ones tittering and spluttering behind their sandwiches at the sight of someone 's bottom . neale lytollis still enjoys a swim at the lake ... dressed in sensible trousers , a duffel coat and balaclava . editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last week 's column when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- swiss want to do away with bare sightings one wild beast the swiss do n't want to see swinging down the trail towards them is a naked german hiker .
-lrb- 10.02.2009 -rrb- east germany 's fascination with flesh gets more exposure a new book detailing east germany 's passion for nudity is set to be launched in typically candid style just weeks after a documentary exposed the communist regime 's secret porn industry .
-lrb- 28.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic visit the world 's largest nudist colony in southern france dw-radio : inside europe www-links missed a ' scene in berlin ' ?
read past editions here feedback does public nudity make you blush or are you a carefree fkk fanatic ?
send us an e-mail with your opinion !
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live drive it !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live partner npr berlin national public radio provides noncommercial news , talk , and entertainment from the us .
social media become a fan follow deutsche welle on the online interactive platform facebook .
word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view link berlin culture crawl blogger lily philipose bases each post on conversations with berliners on what they 're up to . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
naked lunch , berlin style -pipe- culture column -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de culture -pipe- 30.07.2010 naked lunch , berlin style großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for some berliners , summer means ditching the clothes and strutting around without a care in the world .
there 's nothing wrong with that per se , but for bashful ex-pat brits , it can be a truly miserable experience . i recall one summer a couple of years ago lying in the grass in berlin 's tiergarten park , enjoying the fragrant breeze on my face , the warm smell of fresh summer grass and the playful twitter of birds in the trees .
my meditations were disrupted by a male voice asking , " have you got a light ? " i awoke from my daydream and looked up to see a rather hefty middle-aged man sporting at least five bellies standing above me holding a cigarette .
nothing unusual in this you might think - except he was stark naked .
i coughed and spluttered for a moment , rather bashfully rummaged through my bag and held out a lighter in his vague direction while suddenly becoming most interested in intently studying the daisy to my left . after lighting his cigarette , this colossal lump of nakedness then saw fit to stand there for a further 10 minutes discussing the weather .
given that it is rather rude not to make eye contact with someone with whom you are engaged in conversation , i did rather feel obliged to cast the occasional furtive glance in his direction .
however , given that i was lying in the grass and he was standing above me , all i ever seemed to make eye contact with was his looming collection of dangly bits and pieces .
most disturbing . this bold example of nakedness is known as fkk - freikoerperkultur , or naked body culture - and your average german does n't have a problem with it .
even if they themselves do n't strut around in their birthday suit all summer , they seldom seem to notice , much less comment on , other people 's nakedness .
at this time of year , when the temperature has risen at least four million degrees , most berliners are launching themselves into the nearest body of water .
and a good number do so without a stitch on . visit one of berlin 's many lakes -lrb- or indeed some parks -rrb- and thrown into the mix of bathers wearing sensible swimwear , you 'll also see mountains of naked flesh .
some lakes and beaches have designated nudist areas while many others are mixed .
of course this open attitude to nudity in germany is a very healthy one ; small children can splash about in the lake with no clothes on without their parents fearing that a paedophile will jump out from behind the nearest bush while granny and grandpa can enjoy an early evening dip au naturelle quite content with each others ' sagging bodies . bildunterschrift : germans in touch with nature in the 1970s ... brits should enter at their own risk the first fkk club was founded in essen in 1898 with the first nudist beach -lrb- on sylt -rrb- welcoming naked bathers in 1920 .
while attitudes to fkk became increasingly conservative in west germany throughout the 70s and 80s , their east german counterparts still revelled in the feeling of freedom that comes with prancing around in the sun with all their bits and pieces jiggling about .
it has absolutely nothing to do with sex and more to do with man in touch with nature ... or such other primitive nonsense . of course , as a brit , while i find the concept of fkk harmless , in practice it is highly embarrassing .
we have no culture of public displays of nudity in the uk unless you can class the occasional streaker at a cricket match in the 1970s as a healthy display of fkk .
on the contrary , nudity is something to be sniggered at by the prudish brits .
after all , we grew up with benny hill and the carry on films ; types of comedy which taught us that big wobbly breasts were hilarious and the word " knickers " among the funniest in the language . a friend of mine once admonished me for hiding behind a newspaper when some naked swimmers walked past with the rather flimsy justification that " the ducks are naked and that does n't embarrass you . "
no dear , but then again , when was the last time you saw a duck waddling down the street in a three-piece suit ? with this summer being hotter than ever , more and more berliners are trekking to the shady tranquility of the city 's lakes with a good proportion content to do so with no clothes on whatsoever .
next time you 're there , take a break from casting a peep at the naked breasts beside you and indulge in some brit spotting instead ; they 're the ones tittering and spluttering behind their sandwiches at the sight of someone 's bottom . neale lytollis still enjoys a swim at the lake ... dressed in sensible trousers , a duffel coat and balaclava . editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last week 's column when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- swiss want to do away with bare sightings one wild beast the swiss do n't want to see swinging down the trail towards them is a naked german hiker .
-lrb- 10.02.2009 -rrb- east germany 's fascination with flesh gets more exposure a new book detailing east germany 's passion for nudity is set to be launched in typically candid style just weeks after a documentary exposed the communist regime 's secret porn industry .
-lrb- 28.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic visit the world 's largest nudist colony in southern france dw-radio : inside europe www-links missed a ' scene in berlin ' ?
read past editions here 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
travel take a close-up look at some of europe 's most exciting cities .
bern , switzerland freiburg , germany jerez de la frontera , spain oxford , britain bordeaux , france dw-tv : euromaxx cuisine get a taste of europe with these gourmet recipes .
swedish crispbread saddle of rabbit with asparagus risotto rutabaga soup dumplings with meat filling sweet-savory pheasant from leeds dw-tv : euromaxx podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 12 - favorite alt-rockers ja , panik are back subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
naked lunch , berlin style -pipe- culture column -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de culture -pipe- 30.07.2010 naked lunch , berlin style großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : for some berliners , summer means ditching the clothes and strutting around without a care in the world .
there 's nothing wrong with that per se , but for bashful ex-pat brits , it can be a truly miserable experience . i recall one summer a couple of years ago lying in the grass in berlin 's tiergarten park , enjoying the fragrant breeze on my face , the warm smell of fresh summer grass and the playful twitter of birds in the trees .
my meditations were disrupted by a male voice asking , " have you got a light ? " i awoke from my daydream and looked up to see a rather hefty middle-aged man sporting at least five bellies standing above me holding a cigarette .
nothing unusual in this you might think - except he was stark naked .
i coughed and spluttered for a moment , rather bashfully rummaged through my bag and held out a lighter in his vague direction while suddenly becoming most interested in intently studying the daisy to my left . after lighting his cigarette , this colossal lump of nakedness then saw fit to stand there for a further 10 minutes discussing the weather .
given that it is rather rude not to make eye contact with someone with whom you are engaged in conversation , i did rather feel obliged to cast the occasional furtive glance in his direction .
however , given that i was lying in the grass and he was standing above me , all i ever seemed to make eye contact with was his looming collection of dangly bits and pieces .
most disturbing . this bold example of nakedness is known as fkk - freikoerperkultur , or naked body culture - and your average german does n't have a problem with it .
even if they themselves do n't strut around in their birthday suit all summer , they seldom seem to notice , much less comment on , other people 's nakedness .
at this time of year , when the temperature has risen at least four million degrees , most berliners are launching themselves into the nearest body of water .
and a good number do so without a stitch on . visit one of berlin 's many lakes -lrb- or indeed some parks -rrb- and thrown into the mix of bathers wearing sensible swimwear , you 'll also see mountains of naked flesh .
some lakes and beaches have designated nudist areas while many others are mixed .
of course this open attitude to nudity in germany is a very healthy one ; small children can splash about in the lake with no clothes on without their parents fearing that a paedophile will jump out from behind the nearest bush while granny and grandpa can enjoy an early evening dip au naturelle quite content with each others ' sagging bodies . bildunterschrift : germans in touch with nature in the 1970s ... brits should enter at their own risk the first fkk club was founded in essen in 1898 with the first nudist beach -lrb- on sylt -rrb- welcoming naked bathers in 1920 .
while attitudes to fkk became increasingly conservative in west germany throughout the 70s and 80s , their east german counterparts still revelled in the feeling of freedom that comes with prancing around in the sun with all their bits and pieces jiggling about .
it has absolutely nothing to do with sex and more to do with man in touch with nature ... or such other primitive nonsense . of course , as a brit , while i find the concept of fkk harmless , in practice it is highly embarrassing .
we have no culture of public displays of nudity in the uk unless you can class the occasional streaker at a cricket match in the 1970s as a healthy display of fkk .
on the contrary , nudity is something to be sniggered at by the prudish brits .
after all , we grew up with benny hill and the carry on films ; types of comedy which taught us that big wobbly breasts were hilarious and the word " knickers " among the funniest in the language . a friend of mine once admonished me for hiding behind a newspaper when some naked swimmers walked past with the rather flimsy justification that " the ducks are naked and that does n't embarrass you . "
no dear , but then again , when was the last time you saw a duck waddling down the street in a three-piece suit ? with this summer being hotter than ever , more and more berliners are trekking to the shady tranquility of the city 's lakes with a good proportion content to do so with no clothes on whatsoever .
next time you 're there , take a break from casting a peep at the naked breasts beside you and indulge in some brit spotting instead ; they 're the ones tittering and spluttering behind their sandwiches at the sight of someone 's bottom . gavin blackburn still enjoys a swim at the lake ... dressed in sensible trousers , a duffel coat and balaclava . editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de last week 's column when it gets too hot in berlin , it 's time to head to brandenburg now that the 30-something , latte-drinking generation has finished colonizing central berlin , it 's set its sights on the backwaters of brandenburg .
jane paulick wonders if the provinces got the short end of the stick .
-lrb- 23.07.2010 -rrb- swiss want to do away with bare sightings one wild beast the swiss do n't want to see swinging down the trail towards them is a naked german hiker .
-lrb- 10.02.2009 -rrb- east germany 's fascination with flesh gets more exposure a new book detailing east germany 's passion for nudity is set to be launched in typically candid style just weeks after a documentary exposed the communist regime 's secret porn industry .
-lrb- 28.03.2008 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic visit the world 's largest nudist colony in southern france dw-radio : inside europe www-links missed a ' scene in berlin ' ?
read past editions here feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live deutschland heute - das deutschlandmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
blog berlin culture crawl get another insider perspective on berlin .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live glaubenssachen - die kirchensendung we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live stock exchange today in history 1841 : the birth of mass tourism dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live stock exchange today in history 1946 : penicillin production in germany © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week finance and flowers : listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1937 : zeppelin explodes dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
nicola lemken - plowing a successful furrow audi and the dtm , part 4 - big race , big business greece - a year with the financial rescue package handmade in germany : belts for a lifetime © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1917 : mata hari executed © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say education minister calls for more skilled immigrants university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell labor market -pipe- 30.07.2010 minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cash could be one way of convincing skilled workers to relocate germany as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets . german economy minister rainer bruederle encouraged companies to offer skilled foreign workers a special check should they choose to relocate to germany . " the issue of how to finally make germany attractive to skilled migrants is at the top of my agenda , " he told the german business daily handelsblatt on friday . the lack of qualified workers , rather than unemployment , will be a key problem german companies face on the job market , he said , adding that they are in " brutal competition " for the world 's most skilled workers . search is on bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some companies are already having difficulty finding skilled employees his proposal includes offering begruessungsgeld or " welcome money " to migrants , though he added it would be up to companies , rather than the state , to shell out cash . " it is conceivable that some businesses that can afford it and have an urgent need , pay skilled foreign workers an incentive , " he said . as germany recovers from the global economic crisis , companies are already searching for skilled workers to fill open positions . the chemical company lanxess , formerly a part of chemical giant bayer , told the daily financial times deutschland on friday it was " desperately looking for specialists at all levels . " basf , siemens and daimler were also either planning to hire more employees or reduce their original plans to cut position , the business newspaper reported . most recent appeal for skilled migrants bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lowering the amount of pay required to stay in germany could also boost immigration another measure worth consideration would be lowering the level of income necessary to secure a german residence permit , bruederle said .
migrants in germany currently have to prove their annual income will be at least 66,000 euros -lrb- $ 86,250 -rrb- to ensure they are allowed to stay in the country . bruederle is n't the first german minister to call for measured intended to attract skilled workers to germany .
over the weekend annette schavan , the minister of education and research , also called for germany 's doors to be opened to more skilled workers . " it 's not about creating a special status for a threatened minority but about acknowledging cultural diversity , " she said . author : sean sinico -lrb- dpa , ap .
afp , reuters -rrb- editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- immigrants are germany 's future , says integration commissioner with one in three young children born in germany coming from an imimigrant background , germany is quickly becoming even more diverse .
there 's a lot of work ahead in solving the problem of germany 's ethnic underclass .
-lrb- 07.07.2010 -rrb- family-owned firms show resilience during economic crises huge dax-traded companies in germany dominate media reports of economic strife , but behind the scenes a surprisingly powerful force of family-owned businesses is doing its part to keep the country 's economy afloat .
-lrb- 10.06.2010 -rrb- feedback how much money would it take for you to relocate to germany ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live stock exchange today in history 1964 : gdr senior citizens allowed to travel to the west © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- feedback how far can dortmund go in the europa league this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- feedback how far can dortmund go in the europa league this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live people and politics we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet environment matters from around the world listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- feedback how far can dortmund go in the europa league this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report bundesliga predictions hands down dw pundits hope a palm and 50 cents are all it takes to get the scores right on match day 14 .
scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg cantona 's revolution former footballer , now actor eric cantona wants to start a revolution targetting the banks .
listen to the report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live made in germany - the business magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 30.07.2010 cashflow problems risk deflating further progress for borussia dortmund großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bvb fans hope dortmund 's cash woes wo n't deflate the team after steadily improving in the last few seasons , borussia dortmund and its fans are desperate to make the next step .
but the club will have to sell before it can buy any more new players . fans of borussia dortmund are hoping that last season 's fifth place finish and qualification for the europa league means that bvb , one of the bundesliga 's sleeping giants , is finally waking up and has taken a significant step forward in its long and ponderous route back into the big time .
they 'll also be hoping for more signs of progress during this coming campaign .
after one of its best seasons in years , dortmund now faces a new challenge : to build on last season , improve the squad and satisfy the growing expectations of one of germany 's largest and most passionate fan bases .
it will be no easy task for coach juergen klopp and his management backers .
klopp arrived in dortmund in 2008 amid mutterings of discontent from the bvb faithful .
klopp 's foppish style and flamboyantly verbose manner did n't seem to fit with the working-class earthiness associated with the club .
it seemed an ill-conceived marriage ; club and coach as different as chalk and cheese , an odd couple doomed to failure .
yet klopp quickly won over much of the dortmund faithful with his animated commitment and media-savvy charisma , but mainly by giving them what they have been missing for almost a decade : a club that appears ready to challenge again after slipping down the league table since they last won the title in 2002 .
however , by hinting that he could be the man to return the club to its former glory , klopp has made a rod for his own back .
dortmund fans may like what they have seen so far but they will want bigger and better things from their coach and team this season .
promises shown in the best performances by a dortmund team in years last season are not broken lightly in the ruhrgebiet -lrb- the ruhr area where dortmund is based -rrb- .
you make good on them or you run for the hills .
team improvement at the mercy of substantial wage bill with such demands and expectations on his shoulders , many would expect klopp to push on and fine tune a team which produced some of the more attractive attacking soccer in the bundesliga last season .
but in such financially fraught times , finding the money to bring in the players needed to make a good team into a great team is an almost insurmountable task .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : klopp faces improving bvb with one hand tied behind his back the dortmund hierarchy have made it clear this season that bvb will have to sell before it can buy and that reducing the wage bill is not just a priority for the financial department but the club as a whole .
the first salary to be cut from the wage bill could be that of striker nelson valdez who is reportedly the target of a 3 million euro -lrb- $ 3.9m -rrb- bid from ambitious , newly promoted la liga side hercules .
valdez has slipped out of favor , but after impressing at the world cup , dortmund have slapped a 5 million euro price tag on the paraguayan .
however , the striker is settled in the area and has vowed to stay and fight for a place .
strikers in demand ; replacements already in place the main reason valdez is up for sale is the arrival of polish international striker robert lewandowski .
the 21-year old , who has scored an impressive 38 goals for lech poznan over the last two seasons and was the polish league 's top scorer last season , signed for the club in june in a 4.5 million euro deal .
he joins a growing polish contingent at borussia , with jakub blaszczykowski already there and right-back lukasz pisczek having recently joined from hertha berlin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : lewandowski joins bvb with a prolific scoring reputation dortmund should be looking to recruit as much fire power as possible if the rumours surrounding leading scorer lucas barrios come true .
last season ’ s top scorer would command a fee of around 10 million euros if sold and is reportedly being hunted by ac milan , fiorentina , manchester city and napoli .
the argentinean-born forward was one of the main reasons for their charge up the table but the club could be tempted to sell if the price is right .
the same could be said for another of bvb 's coveted strikers , egyptian forward mohamed zidan who is allegedly interesting big names such as manchester united , arsenal and barcelona .
financial juggling part of defensive strengthening as well as potentially replacing a trio of departing front men , klopp may have to find a new centre-back before the season starts if serbian defender nevan subotic moves on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : any cash from subotic 's fee would be spread thinly around the 21-year-old is reportedly a target for manchester united , chelsea and arsenal in the premiership .
if he does leave , at least klopp will take solace in the fact that he will have around 29 million euros to play with from subotic 's transfer fee .
a chunk of those millions , however , may go on serving repayments elsewhere before what 's left is spent on subotic 's replacement .
how much bvb has left to buy a new centre-back depends on whether they also need to buy a new left-back as cover for the injured dede and his back-up marcel schmelzer .
bvb have somewhat of a left-sided crisis developing ahead of the new campaign as both first-choice dede and schmelzer have recently been crocked in pre-season training .
japanese playmaker adds attacking spice bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dortmund has never found a true replacement for tomas rosicky in the playmaker role the offensive line-up has been bolstered by japan international playmaker shinji kagawa .
the 21-year-old signed from j-league club cerezo osaka , and is being touted as the new tomas rosicky .
kagawa scored 55 goals in 125 games for osaka .
the difference in quality in the leagues may mean he has a tougher time in germany but the agile and versatile kagawa will certainly inject a bit more youthful promise and creativity to the midfield .
the dortmund fans will be hoping that all the wheeling and dealing necessary this summer to keep their club operating on a financial even keel will also allow the team keep afloat in the choppy waters of a hoped-for title challenge .
author : nick amies editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de europe 's big spenders looking to lure foreign stars away from bundesliga while german world cup stars seem to be this summer ’ s hottest transfer targets , a number of foreign stars currently plying their trade in the bundesliga are among those whom europe ’ s top clubs are hoping to entice away .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- lucas barrios : la pantera ready to pounce for paraguay lucas barrios ' world cup dream looked to be over earlier this season despite having a great campaign with borussia dortmund .
but a happy twist to the story has now led to south africa .
-lrb- 08.06.2010 -rrb- crazy klopp 's boys restore pride to dortmund 's fanatical faithful a win over hamburg on saturday could catapult borussia dortmund to third in the bundesliga - as high up as they 've been this late in the season in seven years .
moreover , they 're playing just the way their fans like it .
-lrb- 23.01.2010 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live dw-radio would you listen ?
the best of german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report referees a new high-tech center in spain hopes to help referees improve their skills .
listen to the report media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us group pressures deutsche bank to maintain rundown properties -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de housing -pipe- 30.07.2010 us group pressures deutsche bank to maintain rundown properties großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : homes values in the sherman park area of milwaukee has fallen substantially the financial crisis has left thousands of homes vacant in the us city of milwaukee .
residents there are placing part of the blame for the mess at deutsche bank 's door . the people of milwaukee are proud of their city .
they enjoy its proximity to lake michigan , an abundance of parks and high-class restaurants .
but the financial crisis has hit the wisconsin city hard .
thousands of houses have been foreclosed , their owners evicted because they could no longer repay their loans . for the people in the sherman park neighborhood , the crisis is a nightmare that 's turned the area around their homes into a wasteland .
a shop named " milk and honey " is located on 51st street , but the fact is there has n't been anything sweet or creamy about this part of the city since the beginning of the financial crisis . " i feel like i need to leave , " said dolly turnbull , who has lived in sherman park for 31 years .
" but i ca n't because that 's exactly what 's going to make it fall apart . " widespread disrepair bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : giaimo said deutsche bank is partly responsible for the state of homes in sherman park drug dealers have moved into some of the rundown properties .
many streets have fallen into disrepair , and half the homes are empty .
one of the houses covered in graffiti .
" get money , " it says on the wall .
the paper boy still delivers free newspapers to the house , but with no one there to collect them they pile up on the porch .
this property was once worth $ 100,000 -lrb- 76,550 euros -rrb- .
with almost the whole street in bad shape , the price is down to $ 10,000 . until three months ago , it did n't look as if anything were about to change .
but that 's when the people of milwaukee shifted their gaze from their own streets to far-way germany .
they accused germany 's biggest bank , deutsche bank , of being responsible for a large part of the mess .
it 's ironic , they said , given that it was mostly german immigrants who settled in milwaukee back in the 1840s . susan giaimo , a milwaukee professor in political science , travelled to frankfurt in may .
she wanted to stir things up on deutsche bank 's home turf . " deutsche bank is destroying milwaukee homes , " she said .
" germany built milwaukee and now a german bank is destroying milwaukee homes . " deutsche bank 's role in housing crisis bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thousands of homes have been foreclosed on giaimo works with the community organization named common ground of wisconsin .
deutsche bank is much more involved in the housing crisis than it likes to admit , according to the group .
the company bought up large packages of mortgages and resold them for a profit , and it serves as trustee for thousands of milwaukee homes - many of which have been foreclosed on or are considered at-risk .
according to deutsche bank , the company is trustee of 1 million houses across the united states .
that makes deutsche bank accountable for what is happening with the houses , according to common ground . " the banks made money on these subprime mortgages and we want them to take responsibility , " giaimo said . but deutsche bank said there is not much it can do to improve the situation in the perplexing us mortgage market .
the market is made up investors that buy large packages of mortgages .
then there are trustees that administer these packages .
and there are servicers that collect the payments from the house owners and have to take care of foreclosed homes . as trustee , deutsche bank has said it is not directly involved in what happens to the properties .
a spokesperson told deutsche welle it would be illegal for the bank to interfere too much with the operations of other companies involved in the properties ' management .
deutsche bank 's role is , therefore , an administrative one , the spokesman added . but that 's difficult to explain to people receiving foreclosure orders bearing the deutsche bank logo .
it 's the german company that legally owns the loans . trash , grass and broken windows bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : deutsche bank said it would talk to mortgage services about the problem in wisconsin at a meeting in july , the city of milwaukee tried to sort things out .
all major banks came to the city hall - including deutsche bank . listing thousands of violations , city officials said the servicers are doing a lousy job maintaining the properties they are meant to be taking care of .
trash is littered through the high grass and broken windows abound .
the properties with the highest number of violations were managed in deutsche bank trusts .
" we 're not asking too much of the financial institutions , " alderman michael murphy said .
" the united states government helped bailout banks and now local government is bailing them out in maintaining their properties .
this is not acceptable . " deutsche bank has promised to talk to the servicers and ask them to improve the job they are doing .
the bank also agreed to discuss plans to invest in milwaukee . the city has given deutsche bank and its competitors six weeks to lift its game .
otherwise it will consider legal action . author : benjamin hammer editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de top german banker found guilty of market manipulation the former chief of german bank ikb has been found guilty of market manipulation and given a 10-month suspended sentence .
he was also given a hefty fine for misstating investment risks .
-lrb- 14.07.2010 -rrb- us probe looks into international banks and ratings agencies , reports say new york 's attorney general has begun investigating eight banks , including deutsche bank , on their relationships with ratings agencies .
-lrb- 13.05.2010 -rrb- deutsche bank reveals uk bonus tax , posts profits deutsche bank ceo josef ackermann said the bank has set aside 225 million euros -lrb- $ 314 million -rrb- to pay a one-off uk tax on bankers ' bonuses .
he also said he expects industry pay to decline in coming years .
-lrb- 06.02.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic milwaukee homeowners call on deutsche bank to stop urban decay 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live stock exchange today in history 1841 : the birth of mass tourism dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- 9799 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media employment indecent concentration of wealth is making life more difficult for common people .
thetis mangahas speaks on the employment situation in asia justice ethnic mongolians started mass demonstrations against the death of mergen .
flora sapio , professor at würzburg university 's contemporary china studies , on her views on these latest developments in china listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 09.06.11 the international labour organization calls for a new era of social justice thai authorities begin legal processing of refugees without detention a new debate over china ’ s founding father , mao zedong podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile internet cyber attack the chinese government denies claims that a hacker in china was able to hack into google accounts .
security concerns the sipri yearbook 2011 highlights growing security concerns linked to natural resources .
listen to the interview beijing remorse or repression ?
beijing offers financial compensation to families of the victims of the tiananmen massacre . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
nuclear agreement india and south korea sign a deal on nuclear cooperation to fuel india 's growth .
politics karachi violence ethnic violence in karachi has left over 40 dead and several injured .
nuclear restoring confidence the japanese government has come up with a plan to burn contaminated beef from fukushima .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think the us should do in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 india & china the chinese pm has told his indian counterpart the world is big enough for both their countries .
srikant kondapalli from jnu talks about the controversies overshadowing indo-chinese relations october asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 29.10.10 china tells india the world is big enough for both of them 100 days since devastating floods hit pakistan student exchange program between india and germany thrives podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters culture green chillies at berlin asian film festival there were 80 films to be seen at the third asian hot shots festival for film & video art .
india-us us president obama is due to arrive in india next week to discuss economic ties .
ahead of obama 's visit there is some tension over the us not passing information from let operative david headley about the mumbai attacks , says murali krishnan © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think the us should do in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 afghanistan access to those in need is at its worst level in 30 years , says the icrc .
listen to the interview with bijan frederic farnoudi , spokesperson of the international committee of the red cross for afghanistan december asia quiz quiz of the month afpak richard holbrooke , us special envoy for afghanistan and pakistan , has died .
paul rogers from bradford university talks about holbrooke 's legacy for the region listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 16.12.10 the access to those in need in afghanistan is at its worst chinese premier wen jiabao is walking a tightrope to islamabad photo exhibition in berlin shows pictures of indian garbage collectors podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online asia compact join us on facebook !
fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think the us should do in afghanistan ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 reader response feedback on kashmir , korea and other issues our readers and asia compact listeners are passionate about sending in their views .
september asia quiz quiz of the month pakistan the catastrophe click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 24.09.10 japan releases chinese skipper aafia siddiqui trial fails to solve the mystery bhutan says happiness should become a development goal podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.10.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- feedback are a turkish-german who has moved to turkey ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.09.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say turkey -pipe- 30.07.2010 facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many turkish-germans feel more appreciated in turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms . turkish internship applicants in germany are far less likely than their non-turkish competitors to be offered a job , according to a study from the university of koblenz published earlier this year .
in the study , a group of researchers reviewed 1,000 internship applications submitted from economics students .
they found that applicants with a turkish background got 20 percent fewer job offers .
for this reason , many young german-turkish professionals are choosing to move back to turkey , where their work skills and their bilingual- and biculturalism are desperately needed for a growing economy .
according to alev guenes , a professional in information technology from heidelberg , the results of the study are spot on .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guenes says more turkish women work in management " in everyday life , you constantly notice that you 're a foreigner , " she told deutsche welle .
" you always have to do more and more to prove yourself and to be accepted . "
good prospects for women guenes moved to istanbul , where she was immediately hired by a software firm .
she says she is earning about the same salary she would in germany , and finds her job prospects as a woman are much higher .
" of course it is a ' macho-society , " ' she said .
" but in the same sectors here in turkey , i find that women are actually much more accepted .
fifty percent of women here are working , and there are a lot more women in management . "
trade associations in germany estimate that of the 20,000 students of turkish descent who graduate from university every year , one-third leave the country .
many find that their skills are simply more valued in turkey , where discipline and punctuality are not always easy to find in the work force .
" german virtues are important , most of all in the financial sector and management accounting , " said ok ocak , a management expert from mannheim .
" you have to stick to procedures and keep appointments . "
filling gaps in employment ocak has worked in istanbul for about six months at a turkish subsidiary of the german engine manufacturer mtu .
he said his position was newly created , and that it suited him well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : istanbul is a growing metropolis - and economic powerhouse " they wanted someone who knows turkish culture and would be easily accepted by the people here , but who also grew up in germany and has a german education , " he said .
" that 's why i think i fit in well here . "
the turkish economy was not immune to the global recession - gross domestic product dropped by almost six percent in 2009 .
but the country has already bounced back , with the government reporting a whopping 11.7 percent gdp growth rate in the first quarter of 2010 .
it was surpassed only by china .
ocak said despite turkey 's booming market , he could have seen himself emigrating to a different country , like many non-turkish german students do .
but ultimately it was his familiarity with the turkish language and lifestyle that won him over .
" in my head , i 'm more german , " he said .
" but in my heart , i 'm more turkish . "
author : anja kempe -lrb- acb -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de prejudice still has a hold on german attitudes to turkish culture during chancellor angela merkel 's trip to turkey earlier this week , she immersed herself in the country 's culture .
but back home , many germans still have trouble appreciating turkish culture .
-lrb- 31.03.2010 -rrb- merkel rebuffs call for turkish schools in germany german chancellor merkel has rejected calls by turkish prime minister erdogan to set up turkish schools in germany .
the proposal has also been criticized by politicians and turkish groups in germany .
-lrb- 27.03.2010 -rrb- turkish german proves integration is possible , but still troublesome in 1961 , an unskilled altay aral left turkey seeking any kind of work he could find in germany .
now his son is a leading eye specialist here and a guest of the president at a special new year ceremony on tuesday .
-lrb- 12.01.2010 -rrb- survey finds many turks in germany feel ' unwanted ' most immigrants from turkey feel like foreigners not only in germany , but also in their homeland , a new survey has found .
many said they do not feel wanted in their adopted country .
-lrb- 20.11.2009 -rrb- feedback are a turkish-german who has moved to turkey ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live travel discover germany munich offers everything from culture and fashion to relaxation and recreation .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 leaks trigger new debate in us about partition or other options for afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : former us diplomat robert blackwill has called for a partition of afghanistan after the revelations in wikileaks , the taboo-breaking ideas of several experts are suddenly under the microscope as washington looks for an exit strategy that will work . the publication of secret pentagon documents by wikileaks has shaken political washington and public confidence in the us administration 's afghanistan policy to their very foundations .
just a few weeks ago , the political elite was united behind the president and supported his policy of a limited escalation of the war to be accompanied by efforts to step up civil reconstruction .
the goal was to push back the taliban both politically and militarily and to negotiate a political settlement with moderate islamists .
but after the revelations in wikileaks , the debate has taken a new turn .
an alliance against the taliban steve coll 's views are being widely read at the moment .
he was a south asia correspondent for many years and is now the head of the new america think tank .
coll is one of those experts who is calling for a change of course on afghanistan .
he argues that washington should be aiming at establishing alliances with regional strongmen in the north and west of the country against the taliban in the south and east .
he does not place much hope in negotiations with the taliban regardless of how moderate they claim to be .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : steve coll is a pulitzer prize-winning journalist and writer according to coll , these alliances must ensure that neither the taliban nor other factions can seize power in kabul .
against this background the us would be able to withdraw step by step .
if needed it could intervene at any time .
coll says the prerequisite for such a step would be an agreement amongst the political elite in afghanistan that they will stand up to the taliban together .
coll 's critics in the obama administration point out that the government in kabul would once again become a hostage of the powerful regional warlords .
they point out that president najibullah tried this strategy in the early 1990s - and failed .
partition of afghanistan ?
as far as robert blackwill is concerned , coll does not go far enough .
the security expert , who served both george w. bush and his father , is pushing a much more radical idea for the future of afghanistan : partition .
the us and her allies should maintain military control of the north and west .
the south , where the pashtuns form the ethnic majority , should be left to the taliban .
blackwill maintains that this solution is the most realistic option now on the table that the us could justify .
he does not believe that such a development would have an impact on the territorial integrity of pakistan .
however , he admitted in the " financial times " that after nine years of war such an outcome would be a huge disappointment for washington .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : richard haass is the president of the council on foreign relations focus on regional players richard haass , a security expert who also worked for both bush presidencies , has developed a stance somewhere between that of coll and blackwill .
he rejects a " pashtunistan " solution as unrealistic .
this would not be acceptable in afghanistan .
as he argued in " newsweek " , washington should abandon its attempts to strengthen kabul and its armed forces and police .
instead it should give more support to the regional forces that oppose al-qaeda .
in this context washington would have scope for negotiations with those taliban who were prepared to accept these terms .
the us armed forces would remain in the country and support regional forces where necessary .
the number of troops could , according to this scenario , be reduced significantly although one would have to assume that combat operations would continue for many years .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : democratic senator john kerry says it is time to consider a change of course pressure on obama growing in the past week support for obama 's policy has waned considerably .
senator john kerry , who ran for the presidency on the democratic ticket in 2004 and is a key supporter of barack obama , has announced that he will hold a hearing on the issue of negotiating with the taliban and the prospects of a successful outcome .
when asked about wikileaks , kerry declared that they posed serious questions about the chances of present us policy delivering what it promised .
the time had come to consider whether a change of course was necessary .
doubts are now also being raised increasingly by the republicans who have so far largely supported obama 's policy .
as the influential republican senator richard lugar put it a few days ago , washington could continue to pump billions into the war without reaching a satisfactory conclusion .
public opinion turning against the war recent opinion polls in the us show that public support for the war in afghanistan , which is devouring 100 billion dollars a year and costing more and more lives , both civilian and military , continues to fall .
the view held by a clear majority is that the war is lost .
a similar mood prevails in congress where politicians from both parties blocked the administration 's request for fresh funding for the war effort for several weeks .
as the well-known blogger andrew sullivan put it in " the atlantic " : " the logic for withdrawal to the more minimalistic strategy favored by obama after the election -lrb- ... -rrb- seems overwhelming . " sullivan asks when the president will have the courage to admit it .
perhaps the time is soon approaching because the mid-term elections - scheduled for november - are looming on the horizon .
the search for an exit strategy acceptable to us public opinion continues unabated .
author : grahame lucas editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- pakistan is less than surprised by wikileaks the leaked us intelligence documents about the afghanistan war have put the role of pakistan 's intelligence agency , the isi , in allegedly guiding and supporting taliban attacks in afghanistan back in the spotlight .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- calls grow for more transparency on afghanistan after major leak after whistle-blowing website wikileaks published thousands of classified documents on afghanistan , the german opposition is asking why it did n't learn of the information in parliament first .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- 9799 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media singapore polls as singapore votes , not much change is likely with the people 's action party expected to win cherian george , adjunct senior research fellow at the institute of policy studies in singapore , talks about the likely outcome north korea amnesty international paints a horrifying picture of conditions in north korea 's prison camps .
ai 's asia pacific director sam zarifi says north korea 's camp system has expanded listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 06.05.11 pakistan faces international criticism singapore gears up for polls mixed emotions in us about china 's military growth podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters militancy will southeast asian extremist groups retaliate to avenge bin laden 's death ?
sidney jones from the international crisis group explains how close ties are between al qaeda and the indonesia-based jemaah islamiyah -lrb- ji -rrb- © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1943 : ballpoint pen patented dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates feedback would you stay or would you go ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week world a global player dw takes a look at china 's rising political influence that has accompanied its economic growth .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1949 : election of the first federal president © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign decent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates feedback would you stay or would you go ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live stock exchange today in history 1917 : mata hari executed © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates feedback would you stay or would you go ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live stock exchange today in history 1946 : penicillin production in germany © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bundeswehr recruits sworn in against backdrop of protest -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundeswehr -pipe- 30.07.2010 bundeswehr recruits sworn in against backdrop of protest großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : friday 's oath was the first in stuttgart in 11 years police have dispersed one of a dozen anti-military protests in as army recruits take their oath in stuttgart for the first time in 11 years .
around 1,000 police are on the scene to ensure the safety of 650 new soldiers . police in the southwestern german city of stuttgart on friday dispersed a sit-down protest against the ceremonial pledge of allegiance taken by new german army , or bundeswehr , recruits .
just under 50 protesters sat down in front of the st. eberhard cathedral at midday but were not blocking the entrance to the church service for some 300 recruits and their families .
police defended their dispersal of the group , explaining that another location had been designated for the demonstration .
authorities had initially issued permits to 13 anti-military protest groups for friday but later revoked two of these .
about 1,000 police officers were dispatched to ensure the safety of a total of 650 recruits from southern germany . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : around a dozen protest groups were granted permits the need for security at friday 's event was already stressed last sunday morning when 15 demonstrators occupied the cathedral in protest against the mass .
stuttgart 's dean called the police to remove the protestors after telling them that the church was not the place for political action .
the recruits took their oaths at stuttgart 's new palace in what was the first public pledge of allegiance for bundeswehr soldiers in the city in 11 years . author : david levitz -lrb- dpa / kna -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de mother of killed soldier wants to take military to court the mother of a german soldier who died in afghanistan is seeking to sue the defense ministry and the bundeswehr - arguing that better equipment and training could have prevented her son 's death .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- germany mulls getting rid of compulsive military service the german bundestag is debating a proposal to decrease the length of mandatory military service in a bid to save money .
but if defense minister guttenberg has his way , the military draft could be scrapped altogether .
-lrb- 12.06.2010 -rrb- bundeswehr conscription acts as internship for military careers germany has decided to reduce the time of its mandatory military and civilian services .
one expert says the practice continues to exist because it is a primary recruitment tool to find future career soldiers .
-lrb- 18.05.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
foreign aid a helping hand the european commission has decided to help north korea tackle famine .
art ming vases chinese art collectors are traveling to europe to buy ancient works from their own country .
threatened communities preserving tribal communities and their habitats can help sustain the environment .
dr. james albert of the society for threatened peoples speaks about the dangers to tribals in india dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- 9799 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media justice ethnic mongolians started mass demonstrations against the death of mergen .
flora sapio , professor at würzburg university 's contemporary china studies , on her views on these latest developments in china employment indecent concentration of wealth is making life more difficult for common people .
thetis mangahas speaks on the employment situation in asia .
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 08.06.11 tough sentences for chinese coal miners as ethnic mongolians call for justice islamabad ’ s red mosque preacher sets out new schools thailand ’ s opposition red shirts build network as the country prepares for july election podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile internet cyber attack the chinese government denies claims that a hacker in china was able to hack into google accounts .
security concerns the sipri yearbook 2011 highlights growing security concerns linked to natural resources .
listen to the interview beijing remorse or repression ?
beijing offers financial compensation to families of the victims of the tiananmen massacre . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 31.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you agree that there is war in afghanistan because the international troops are there ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 india & china the chinese pm has told his indian counterpart the world is big enough for both their countries .
srikant kondapalli from jnu talks about the controversies overshadowing indo-chinese relations october asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 29.10.10 china tells india the world is big enough for both of them 100 days since devastating floods hit pakistan student exchange program between india and germany thrives podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters culture green chillies at berlin asian film festival there were 80 films to be seen at the third asian hot shots festival for film & video art .
india-us us president obama is due to arrive in india next week to discuss economic ties .
ahead of obama 's visit there is some tension over the us not passing information from let operative david headley about the mumbai attacks , says murali krishnan © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 30.07.2010 nigerian president draws a new online following on facebook großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : each of president goodluck jonathan 's posts draw between 1,000 and 2,000 comments president goodluck jonathan has attracted over 144,000 facebook fans in just a few short weeks , and he writes his own posts every day , in english , drawing thousands of comments . last week , facebook announced that it had passed 500 million member mark .
but one of its newer members is nigerian president goodluck jonathan , who is posting up a storm on his facebook page .
over 144,000 people have said that they like his facebook page , where he posts in english about his daily political activities .
president jonathan is more popular on facebook than german chancellor angela merkel , who only has around 42,000 fans , but still significantly trails the world ’ s most popular online politician , barack obama , who has over 11.5 million fans .
online nigerians seem to be very excited at their president ’ s adoption of the popular social networking site as he seems to be riding the wave of increasing popularity for the site in nigeria .
" this is a real change , but a good change , " said a woman in an internet café in sokoto in northwestern nigeria .
" it allows all of nigeria the ability to give their opinions directly to the politicians .
when there are problems , then they can set them straight .
before the president there were already a few other politicians on facebook .
they give their opinions on various topics , just like we do , without being afraid of being arrested .
this reduces the gulf between the politicians and the people . "
already , around one million nigerians have signed up for facebook .
with that kind of audience , the social networking site has become very attractive to many politicians .
they see it as a way to get into discussions with their fellow countrymen , and as a way to air their thoughts and hopefully , to build support .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president jonathan has over 144,000 fans on facebook facebook has influenced political decisions yakuba musa , who works on the nigerian president 's public relations team , describes the first facebook day as a huge success .
and though he helped initiate that idea , he says he ’ s not the one writing the president ’ s posts .
" the president does it himself , " he told deutsche welle .
" and if you look at it , it has been influencing some of the decisions that he has been taking , for example , the nigerian football association .
the president reversed his decision -lrb- to ban the team from international play over their poor world cup performance -rrb- and subsequently , on the website he said that he based his decision on some comments that he got from nigerians . "
jonathan does n't only write about soccer .
he discusses other things that have been troubling his people for a long time : the inconsistent and insufficient electricity production , say , or environmental problems in the niger delta .
and it seems the nigerians have taken to the idea of a conversation with their head of state .
each entry by the president quickly attracts between 1,500 and 2,000 comments .
at the same internet cafe in sokoto , abdurrahman mohammed is also excited about the new opportunities the web has brought .
" i opened a facebook page because i saw how many other people were getting on the social network , " he said .
" i can use facebook to let people know what i think .
and i hope i can do my bit to make so many things in my country and the world better .
i think what our president has done is great .
it 's good for all nigerians . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : of nigeria 's 11 million internet users , only around one million of them are on facebook muslim leaders also seek new followers on facebook and it is n't just politicians and regular citizens in nigeria who have discovered the internet and social networks .
muslim imams are also trying to gain new followers by using facebook .
usman aliyu is one of them .
he uses facebook as a platform to discuss religious and social issues .
" i opened a facebook page because i want to know how people act within the social network , " he said .
" we ’ ve seen that many young people are very active on facebook .
so we use that as a way to show how religious concepts and the correct way of acting applies to their daily lives , " he explained .
lawal aliyu is exactly the kind of person the imam is targeting , but he does n't have time for what he sees as small ideas .
to him facebook is more about getting out into the world .
" facebook is a website where people can give their opinions or discuss problems , " he said .
" in our country , people often do n't always have courage to say what they think in public .
but on facebook they can write what they want .
the whole world can see it , react to it and make suggestions . "
author : mohammad awal -lrb- cf -rrb- editor : ranjitha balasubramanyam send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de facebook , google use in germany stays high despite privacy inquiries younger , internet-savvy germans say they understand why officials are going after these companies , but are n't changing their behavior as a result of it -lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- german officials charge facebook with privacy violations german data protection officials go after facebook for storing personal data of non-users .
meanwhile , another official advocates creating a smartphone app for users to track personal information gathered about them .
-lrb- 08.07.2010 -rrb- nigerian president 's death could trigger sectarian violence nigerian president umaru yar 'adua has died following a long illness that had sparked a leadership crisis in the country .
analysts expect his succession to be the most hotly contested since nigeria 's return to democracy .
-lrb- 06.05.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic nigerian president interacts with citizens on facebook 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : migrants in germany 's workforce merkel rejects plans to attract skilled foreign workers education minister calls for more skilled immigrants minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus import turkish officers to patrol problem neighborhoods , police say integration -pipe- 30.07.2010 university grads of foreign descent bid germany farewell großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : studying in germany but working elsewhere university graduates of foreign descent tend to turn their backs on germany .
despite being as qualified as german applicants , their career prospects are not as good .
especially many turks consider going to istanbul . all her bags are packed , she is ready to go : 29-year-old hacer aydin is planning to return to turkey .
one year ago she successfully earned a degree in economics at the ruhr university in bochum .
since then she has applied for jobs at more than a dozen german companies , but none of them invited her for a job interview . " it 's a fact that german citizens are favored , " aydin said , a mix of frustration and resignation in her voice . although in her personal life she said she feels like a regular part of society , aydin added that she feels left out of the job market .
she is also skeptical whether migrants in germany have real opportunities for professional advancement . sought-after specialists leave germany bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : engineers are sought-after in germany , but it is difficult for migrants to find a job every third migrant with turkish roots considers going back to turkey , according to a study conducted center of turkish studies at the university of duisburg / essen .
in the past 10 years the number of people willing to go back has almost doubled . no less than 35 percent of young graduates want to return to turkey after finishing their education at a german university .
in a poll by the futureorg institute , most participants said an important reason to head back was because - despite their qualifications - they feel excluded . from an economic point of view , germany can ill afford to let them leave as companies are desperately looking for engineers and it specialists . looking for schmidt , not yüksel quite a number of aydin 's friends and acquaintances from the turkish community at the ruhr university in bochum have already said goodbye and left for turkey .
from their conversations she has learned that graduates with turkish roots and a german degree have a good chance to start working in turkey , especially in the booming region around istanbul . bildunterschrift : thriving and thrilling : many young graduates look for jobs in and around istanbul brain drain instead of brain gain most migrants have a rather pessimistic outlook on their career and thus can easily imagine living and working in turkey , according to dirk halm from the center of turkish studies .
even if they felt integrated at their universities - which most of them did - after graduation they feel rejected and excluded by the wider world . that is why so many graduates , especially in the fields of economics and technology , decide to go back to their parents ' home country .
some even consider going into business for themselves . the disparity of opportunities also convinces some people to leave for turkey , halm added . " it is indeed the case that someone of a non-german origin will have more difficulty getting a job - even if he is as qualified , " he said .
" this has been scientifically proven in the past years . " when applicants ' last names are yüksel instead of schmidt , they get the short end of the stick , halm said . happy private , professional life bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german applicants are often favored , halm said another reason for the returning to turkey is marriage , halm said . " from an economic point of view , it is a lot easier for one 's spouse in turkey now than it used to be 20 or 30 years ago , " halm said .
" the economic situation is much better now , more dynamic . " in other words : marrying in turkey can prove a lot more satisfying - both in terms of career opportunities and enjoyment of private life - than applying for and being denied jobs in germany .
in the face of starting her career in thriving istanbul , such a marriage is something that even emancipated economist hacer aydin could imagine for herself . author : klaus deuse -lrb- gri -rrb- editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de minister encourages companies to pay skilled migrants a welcome bonus as german companies face a shortage of skilled labor , economy minister rainer bruederle announced plans for a recruitment drive and suggested businesses start appealing to migrant workers ' wallets .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- facing prejudice , many young turkish-germans return to turkey germany 's turkish minority is often the subject of discrimination .
that 's why many turkish-german university graduates are moving back to turkey , where the economy is growing and they 're welcomed with open arms .
-lrb- 30.07.2010 -rrb- education minister calls for more skilled immigrants german education minister schavan was joined by business leaders in calling for more skilled immigrants to boost germany 's economy .
schavan also praised a group of migrants she called germany 's " turkish elite . " -lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic turkey offers more career choices to german-turkish graduates 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week finance and flowers : listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1937 : zeppelin explodes dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
nicola lemken - plowing a successful furrow audi and the dtm , part 4 - big race , big business greece - a year with the financial rescue package handmade in germany : belts for a lifetime © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you agree that there is war in afghanistan because the international troops are there ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 afpak richard holbrooke , us special envoy for afghanistan and pakistan , has died .
paul rogers from bradford university talks about holbrooke 's legacy for the region december asia quiz quiz of the month bangladesh thousands of garment workers protest after four die in police firing .
arun chowdhury talks to m. m. akash , professor of economics at dhaka university , about the root of the problem : minimum wages listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 15.12.10 exclusive interview with aung sun suu kyi chinese pm visits india podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online asia compact join us on facebook !
fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- feedback do you agree that there is war in afghanistan because the international troops are there ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 reader response feedback on kashmir , korea and other issues our readers and asia compact listeners are passionate about sending in their views .
september asia quiz quiz of the month pakistan the catastrophe click here to find out more about pakistan 's flood situation and relief work .
asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 24.09.10 japan releases chinese skipper aafia siddiqui trial fails to solve the mystery bhutan says happiness should become a development goal podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 30.07.2010 hopes in afghanistan 's south for speedier withdrawal of western forces großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghans in the south have lost their trust in the international troops the leaked us army files have exposed the cruel reality of the war in afghanistan .
in the south , many hope that this will increase public pressure on western governments to quickly withdraw their troops . for the people in the war-torn south of afghanistan , the wikileaks files certainly do n't reveal anything they did n't know already .
what has shocked many in the west is part of everyday life for the afghans here .
they have seen most of it with their own eyes .
but what makes the documents interesting are the consequences the wikileaks papers might have - a speedier withdrawal of western forces .
20-year-old mohammad maqsood zamir , a journalist with the kandahar internet newspaper benawa , thinks : " there is war in afghanistan because of the presence of international troops .
the people here are fighting the government also because they see them as collaborating with the foreigners .
it will speed up the peace process if the international troops leave afghanistan . "
bildunterschrift : a protest against alleged killings of civilians by coalition forces in kunar province pashtuns believe foreign presence has helped taliban the majority of pashtuns in southern afghanistan do n't back the taliban .
zamir says that on the contrary many believe the presence of international troops is strengthening the fundamentalist militants .
he points out that the taliban lost most of their influence in the region during the years after losing power in kabul , but now they are back , controlling more and more of southern afghanistan .
khanwadi zalarzai from the pajwak news agency adds that many people are frustrated because the west is fighting the taliban only in afghanistan and not pursuing them into neighboring pakistan .
" it is clear that they have their sanctuaries in pakistan , but western troops shut their eyes to the facts . "
in his home region kunar people just do n't trust the west any more , he explains , because it has n't kept its promises .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : afghan women have come a long way since the fall of the taliban women no longer fear return of the taliban not even afghan women , whose suppression by the taliban was one of the reasons why many western parliamentarians decided to vote for sending troops to afghanistan , would shed any tears over a troop withdrawal , says shukria rahmanzai .
the reporter and anchorwoman of the public broadcaster rta in jalalabad does recognize that the west has brought a lot of positive change in afghanistan .
the confident young afghan says whereas women used to be confined to their homes , they have meanwhile become students , businesswomen and even parliamentarians .
she believes they do n't even need to be afraid of the taliban returning to afghan politics .
" if the government is strong , implements the laws and respects the rights that islam is giving us , nobody will be able to take away from us what we have achieved . "
the young woman suggests the focus should be on strengthening the afghan army for this purpose .
she proposes that the americans should instead concentrate on searching for the suicide bombers who she says are trained in pakistan and sent to afghanistan .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : president karzai reaching out to pashtun tribal leaders in kandahar support for reconciliation efforts journalist khanwadi zalarzai is n't afraid of the taliban either .
he says they should be given another chance to reintegrate into afghan society .
" i support president karzai 's idea of holding peace talks with the afghan taliban and gulbuddin hekmatyar 's hizb-e-islami . "
many afghans have lost all hope that the west will achieve its goals and are keen to take their destiny back into their own hands .
after all , many claim - with a disappointed undertone - that the foreigners are only using afghanistan for their own ends .
author : cem sey / tb editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de afghans skeptical about kabul conference the international afghanistan conference in kabul has ended with new plans and pledges for restructuring aid and trying to end militancy in the country .
afghans , however , remain skeptical .
-lrb- 20.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : leaked documents should generate new afghanistan debate with the publication of 92,000 confidential military reports , details of the afghanistan war have become much clearer .
the leaked documents should generate a new , more honest debate says deutsche welle 's bernd riegert .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- mcchrystal 's departure deals body blow to us afghanistan policy us afghan policy seems in disarray after the dismissal of the us commander in afghanistan , gen. stanley mcchrystal .
that was preceded by the de facto resignation of the uk 's special envoy to afghanistan and pakistan .
-lrb- 24.06.2010 -rrb- 9799 north korea amnesty international paints a horrifying picture of conditions in north korea 's prison camps .
ai 's asia pacific director sam zarifi says north korea 's camp system has expanded global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media militancy will southeast asian extremist groups retaliate to avenge bin laden 's death ?
sidney jones from the international crisis group explains how close ties are between al qaeda and the indonesia-based jemaah islamiyah -lrb- ji -rrb- listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 05.05.11 first eu-asean business meeting kicks off in jakarta inhumane conditions in north korean prison camps india advises egypt on voting machines podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.10.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook energy researchers hope nuclear fusion reactors could put an end to the world 's energy problems .
endless energy health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
quiz take the quiz - win an ipad !
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.09.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook energy researchers hope nuclear fusion reactors could put an end to the world 's energy problems .
endless energy health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
quiz take the quiz - win an ipad !
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de reader response -pipe- 30.07.2010 readers discuss who is to blame in the love parade tragedy großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mourners are looking for answers following the tragedy nearly a week has passed since the tragic events at the love parade .
calls have mounted for one or more officials in duisburg to take responsibility , and readers wrote in with their thoughts on the issue of blame . the following comments reflect the views of dw-world.de readers .
not all reader comments have been published .
dw-world.de reserves the right to edit for length and appropriateness of content . who is responsible ? a riot begins with a single person .
that person is pushed , falls or screams and others begin to panic .
the crowd begins to move more quickly and , finding themselves trapped , kick one another .
the police were powerless until the crowd reached an exit point .
a riot is one of life 's worst nightmares . - malcolm , canada mass panic is to blame . - marc , spain i can not see any sense in putting the blame on an individual .
he will doubtless feel guilty and saddened by the events , but to blame him for the deaths ?
i can not see the logic there .
for example , were organizations employed to oversee planning and logistics ?
was permission granted by a local government body ?
were the police informed and asked to monitor ?
did the attendees not see the potential for danger when so many people filled the venue ?
as usual , human nature says try to put the entire blame on as few as you can , and best of all , blame just one person if you can .
well , life is not like that , and you can not do that . - fred , australia the unexpected always follows from good ideas and intentions .
somehow life and its mystery become like a coin - sometimes it lands on one side , sometimes the opposite .
my condolences go to the families of all those young people who believed in something different . - erico , chile exactly 10 years ago , something similar happened in my home country of denmark , at the roskilde festival .
it has also happened in other situations , where panic has broken out , due to fires or crowds pushing ahead , for example .
and , sadly , it will no doubt happen again in the history of mankind .
this should lead to a kind of certification of all major events , where so many people gather in a limited area .
all parameters that could start a disaster and affect its course should be taken into account - escape routes , weather , alcohol consumption , age groups involved , fire , nationalities -lrb- how to communicate to and with a large group of people from different countries -rrb- , et cetera .
specialists , like psychologists , police , city planners , emergency teams , et cetera should try to think out possible scenarios at a given location and how to minimize the risk of loss of lives .
the only positive thing about disasters is that knowledge about them may help us to learn more about how large crowds react in critical conditions .
maybe computer models could also be helpful when simulating scenarios .
a certification and disaster prevention team should be a legal must-have for event makers and could be an eu-task to set up . - henrik , denmark no " one " person is to blame ; that is stupid .
sauerland should not be vilified to the point where something drastic happens to him . - bill , us compiled by greg wiser editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de pressure grows on duisburg mayor to resign over love parade deaths germany is looking for someone to take the blame in the tragic crushing deaths of 21 love parade festival-goers .
a preliminary investigation said event organizers and the city of duisburg should accept responsibilty .
-lrb- 29.07.2010 -rrb- duisburg officials have few answers for causes of love parade deaths officials from the german city of duisburg , which saw 19 people killed saturday in a deadly stampede at the love parade music festival , have offered little at a press conference to explain what caused the tragic events .
-lrb- 24.07.2010 -rrb- timeline of the love parade tragedy hundreds of thousands of techno music fans attended the love parade , which ended in tragedy after panic broke out in a tunnel that served as the event 's entrance .
here is a chronology of events that led to the incident .
-lrb- 25.07.2010 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- feedback how many different mobile phone chargers do you have ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de consumer affairs -pipe- 30.07.2010 european commission says standard mobile chargers coming in 2011 großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : multiple chargers for multiple phones will soon become a thing of the past the new charger will be for all smartphones and all “ data-enabled ” phones , and not older models .
major companies , including apple , samsung , sony ericcson , nokia and others have agreed to the deal . a european commission spokesperson said friday that starting in january 2011 , european consumers will be able to finally purchase a standard mobile phone charger for nearly all mobile phones sold in the 27 member state bloc . this move comes over a year after major manufacturers , including nokia , apple , samsung and many other mobile companies agreed with the european commission to provide a single charger to reduce waste and inefficiency . " introduction of the universal charger will make life much simpler for eu consumers , " said dennis abbott , a european commission spokesperson .
" when you discover you 've left your charger at home or work , you will be able to use someone else 's , knowing it will fit your phone .
how cool is that ? " the industry agreed that the new charger will be for all smartphones and all " data-enabled " phones - and will use a micro-usb connector .
the new universal chargers will not cover older mobile phones . new standard should reduce energy , waste bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : apple 's iphone will also be covered by the new agreement " the environmental benefits of harmonizing chargers are expected to be very significant : reducing the number of unnecessary chargers will reduce the associated electronic waste , which currently amounts to thousands of tons , " abbott told deutsche welle .
" harmonized chargers are also expected to improve energy-efficiency , thus reducing energy consumption . " he added that by early next year , approximately half of the mobile phones in use across the european union will be covered by the new provision , and that will lead to substantial environmental savings . " one charger per mobile phone leads to millions of obsolete chargers in european households - creating more than 50,000 tons of electronic waste a year , " he said .
" i 've still got six chargers from previous mobile phones in a drawer at home . " the announcement comes less than a month after new european commission rules went into effect capping the amount consumers could be charged while they were “ roaming ” onto foreign mobile phone networks . " this is a commission which is really dedicated to providing a better deal for the consumer but also to ensuring that we can come up with common sense solutions , " abbott said . author : cyrus farivar editor : sean sinico send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de european ' roaming fees ' reduced as part of eu policy europeans can now look forward to lower bills for using their mobile phones in other eu countries .
an eu rule capping the extra costs for phone calls and internet surfing abroad , or ' roaming fees ' , has come into force .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- growing popularity of smartphones pose a test for mobile networks smartphones are making mobile internet access a reality for a growing number of users .
but the amount of data being transferred is stretching mobile networks to capacity , creating problems with overloads .
-lrb- 22.06.2010 -rrb- companies agree on standard mobile phone charger a group of mobile phone manufactures have agreed to a set of criteria for a standard mobile charger .
the first batch of handsets that are n't tied to a particular charging device should hit the market in 2010 .
-lrb- 29.06.2009 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
growing risks facing south asia 's megacities -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 30.07.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de urban development -pipe- 30.07.2010 growing risks facing south asia 's megacities großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dhaka is one of the fastest growing megacities in the world the south asian megacities of karachi , delhi or dhaka are the fastest-growing conurbations in the world .
this rapidly increasing urbanization poses more and more risks to people and society . dhaka , one of the fastest growing megacities in the world with a population of more than 13 million , has recently been ranked as the most vulnerable city in the world to the impact of climate change . but , as wolfgang-peter zingel from the university of heidelberg explains , this is not the only environmental risk that people living in bangladesh 's capital face .
" the risk can be change in the micro-climate - for example of having too much pollution .
and dhaka and bangladesh are perfect examples for it .
especially in the winter , where almost everybody is suffering from some pain in the chest because of the tremendous air pollution , and you can not escape .
people can not walk out , they are afraid to let their children play outside because there is so little public space , the traffic becomes dangerous . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bangladeshi boatmen row through the polluted waters in dhaka poor people under constant threat benjamin etzold from the university of bonn explains that the risks are not limited to climate change or pollution .
many other people are vulnerable in south asia 's megacities , " the middle class is always at risk that their wages are not sufficient to buy a tv or a fridge .
it 's of course a quite different risk that a slum dweller is facing when a flood is coming , or being evicted by the police or being beaten up by more powerful people or criminals .
women face quite different risks of exclusion , of no access to education for young girls . " growing slums clearly , one of the biggest problems of the megacities are the ever growing slums .
it is estimated that karachi 's orangi town is currently the largest slum in south asia , leaving the dharavi slum in mumbai behind .
all over south asia , the slum dwellers receive very little or no support from the government for their welfare . wolfgang-peter zingel says the urban poor have had to learn to cope with all kinds of risks themselves .
" they simply do not have a choice .
because there is no exact strategy for it .
there is no social policy coming into it , so they cope with it .
bangladesh with regular floods is a perfect example .
people have been living with it .
for a long time they have known the water comes , the water goes .
in some years it has been exceptionally bad , but with the average flood they can cope . " bildunterschrift : dharavi slum in mumbai , home to a million people survival of the wealthiest in the indian capital delhi conflicts over city development are particularly acute this year .
on the one hand , city officials and politicians want to implement proper planning to make delhi a world city before the commonwealth games this autumn , and on the other hand they have to deal with the slum dwellers .
benjamin etzold says in these situations , the poor are likely to lose out .
" government or city administrations - it 's always client politics .
they are from specific social-economic elite , and they are often serving the interests of the elite , and the higher middle class as well .
but often the policies do not work in favor of the urban poor . " as the urbanization trend continues , the risks of living in south asia 's megacities will also continue to grow - but mainly for the poor and vulnerable who do not have a lobby to look after their interests . author : jaisu bhullar editor : grahame lucas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de workers and slum dwellers bear brunt of commonwealth games preparations the authorities want to present the indian capital as a world-class city but the rapid , deadline-driven overhaul has led to concerns about the plight of construction workers and slum dwellers who have been evicted .
-lrb- 31.05.2010 -rrb- bangkok tries to recover from recent upheavals as human rights organizations investigate the political violence , anger has replaced fear among the thai capital 's slum communities .
-lrb- 27.05.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
foreign aid a helping hand the european commission has decided to help north korea tackle famine .
art ming vases chinese art collectors are traveling to europe to buy ancient works from their own country .
threatened communities preserving tribal communities and their habitats can help sustain the environment .
dr. james albert of the society for threatened peoples speaks about the dangers to tribals in india dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
