threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread -pipe- protecting biodiversity in suriname -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home europe eco-loans in serbia permafrost in russia boreal forests in russia making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia green industry park in india flood prevention in bangladesh hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa renewable energy on the cape verde islands dry forests in zambia agricultural insurance in ghana climate champions in uganda green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america energy-efficient wine production in chile solar roofs in brazil natural paradise in costa rica renewable energy in the caribbean micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features biomass geothermal wind power solar power hydropower biodiversity -pipe- 23.11.2010 threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : leatherback turtles have existed for millions of years the earth is home to some 20 million species , and many more that scientists believe have never been identified .
they say species extinctions are on the rise , with repercussions for mankind . the leatherback turtle lives on the coast of suriname .
weighing up to 700 kilos -lrb- 1,540 pounds -rrb- and as long as 2.5 meters -lrb- 8 feet -rrb- , it 's the world 's largest sea turtle .
but sheer size is n't enough to prevent it from dying out .
its reproductive patterns are highly sensitive to rising temperatures : sands in many areas are today so scorching that eggs can not survive , and moreover , sand temperatures determine the sex ratio of turtle eggs .
if the sand in which they lay their eggs gets too hot , more female turtles are produced – which destroys the natural gender balance and endangers breeding success over the long term .
a further problem is loss of nesting and feeding habitats due to rising sea-levels .
taken together , all this means their numbers are declining dramatically and they have been added to the international union for conservation of nature -lrb- iucn -rrb- " red list " of threatened species .
according to experts , if no action is taken to protect leatherbacks , these reptiles , which have existed for over 65 million years , will disappear in our lifetime .
climate change and biodiversity bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : clownfish are losing their sense of smell the united nations declared 2010 to be the international year of biodiversity , with research showing that , via global warming , man is responsible for the greatest extinction of wildlife since the demise of the dinosaurs .
one-fifth of the world 's vertebrates face extinction , according to the latest figures released by the iucn .
in fact , the role played by global warming is a matter of keen debate .
many scientists believe that other factors contribute , such as poaching , and the fact that the consequences of climate change are intensified by pollution .
climate change is also having severe impacts on migratory species .
that is also likely to be increasingly disruptive , experts say .
" these days , you come across species in places where they 've never been before , " said wendy foden , of the species program run by the iucn in london .
" some species are migrating to colder regions , and in south america , that means further south and higher altitudes . "
marine life is equally affected but the animals have fewer migratory options .
increased co2 levels in the atmosphere are changing ocean ph levels , a process which alters many species ' habitat .
what it means for mankind helen foden cites the example of the clownfish .
“ when the water is more acidic than usual , clownfish start to lose their sense of smell , " she said .
like many reef and coastal fish , clownfish are swept off their home reefs into the open ocean as babies , and use their acute senses of smell to find their way back .
the tiny larvae of many coastal fish rely on scent cues in the water to help locate adult habitat .
iucn experts now hope to use the popularity of the clownfish to raise awareness of how climate change is impacting ecosystems .
" thanks to the movie ‘ finding nemo , ' everyone is familiar with clownfish , " said foden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the tiny noblella pygmaea mini frog was only discovered in 2009 species extinction has an immediate effect on mankind .
according to a recent survey carried out in germany , two-thirds of those questioned said that they would be personally affected by biodiversity loss , but mainly in terms of their leisure-time activities .
in fact , the repercussions will be significantly further-reaching .
the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity -lrb- teeb -rrb- study is a major international initiative set up to draw attention to the global economic benefits of biodiversity and to highlight the growing costs of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation . it puts the worldwide economic value of the pollination service provided by insect pollinators , for example , at some € 153 billion -lrb- $ 210 billion -rrb- – proof that species ' extinction is about far more than leisure activities .
however , the teeb study has been unable to give a precise figure to the cost of loss of biodiversity , simply because many species have never been identified . unknown species bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south america is believed to be home to the world 's greatest biodiversity some 1.9 million species are officially catalogued , but this is believed to be just a small percentage of the species that actually exist .
researchers estimate that about 100 species die out every year , and since their function in the ecosystem is not necessarily known , scientists are not in a position to identify the consequences of their extinction .
gudrun mernitz is co-founder of the resource center for marine organisms .
she and her team have isolated several hundred substances out of marine micro-organisms , which are now being examined as potential components in pharmaceuticals . " several might be active against types of cancer , " said mernitz .
in the past 10 years , some 6 percent of medicines developed were derived from natural substances , says rolf hoemke from the association of research-based pharmaceuticals companies .
" it might be anything , even the intestines of a bug , " he said .
the pharmaceutical potential of biodiversity should not underestimated .
researchers from conservation international take regular field trips to document biodiversity and to locate where the establishment of conservation areas would be most constructive .
the idea is that by protecting animal and plant species from pollution and poaching , they may adjust over time to climate change .
author : marion huetter -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de extinction threatens over one fifth of world 's plants the world 's plants are facing an extinction rate on a par with mammals .
one in five plant species is at threat of dying out , says a new study released ahead of the un 's biodiversity summit in japan in october .
-lrb- 29.09.2010 -rrb- russia convenes leaders ' summit to save tigers from extinction the fate of the world 's 3,500 wild tigers is the theme at a conference in russia this week .
leaders from the 13 nations with wild tigers are meeting amid claims that the animals could be extinct within a dozen years .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- 9799 main page english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv .
global 3000 04.07.2011 edition as video on demand radio listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 07.07.11 -rrb- the living planet page get connected global ideas : stay up to date facebook twitter videos on youtube podcast via rss-feed podcast via itunes our planet dw 's in depth reporting on environement and development issues .
click here © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greece on fiscal track , but must make deeper cuts , lenders say -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de greece -pipe- 23.11.2010 greece on fiscal track , but must make deeper cuts , lenders say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in deep water , greece gets new financial lifeline greece has gained approval for the next installment from an eu and imf financial rescue package , but lenders have demanded even tougher austerity measures . after doubts were voiced in the last two weeks that greece may not be eligible for another piece of the financial rescue pie , athens moved to pledge new efforts to meet the terms of a 110-billion euro -lrb- $ 151 million -rrb- bailout .
international lenders on tuesday said they would help , but prescribed an even stricter regimen for greece to regain financial stability .
the international monetary fund and the european union both stressed that greece would have to cut waste from its health care system and state-owned companies and take tougher action on tax evasion to merit another payout from the rescue fund .
greece ‘ largely on track ' eu and imf auditors , who had been to greece to assess the country 's fiscal progress , said the program was at a crossroads .
the auditors said that greece was " largely on track " with reforms and approved the release in december of nine billion euros in rescue funds .
the approval of the third tranche of the bailout money had been delayed by a day because negotiations on deeper cuts were continuing .
a fourth and bigger slice of aid , totaling 15 billion euros , is due in march , but would depend on progress made with the latest requested measures to combat greece 's massive budget deficit and national debt .
the auditors , however , also did not rule out extending the repayment timetable , or providing an additional loan to greece .
author : gregg benzow -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- greece pledges bigger cuts to make eu targets after admitting it will miss this year 's targets , greece has pledged to hike sales tax , freeze pensions and cut government waste in order to shrink its deficit in 2011 .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box in-box is no longer broadcast .
instead , you can listen to sound-scape 100 listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
labor bottleneck squeezes german solar sector -pipe- environment & development -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 23.11.2010 labor bottleneck squeezes german solar sector großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in the solar industry , qualified employees are a scarce commodity jobs in renewable energies in germany have quadrupled since 2006 , but a stubborn lack of qualified employees remains .
immigration policy and a wariness of outsiders could hobble the industry before it hits full stride . as in many countries , renewable energy sources are playing an increasingly important role in germany .
thanks to a generous system of feed-in tariffs , they now account for 16.3 percent of the country 's electricity , according to the renewable energies agency .
indeed , germany has ambitions for the sector that go beyond its own borders .
the export-oriented economy is pinning its hopes on becoming a center of knowledge and innovation that will sell the know-how for clean technologies to the rest of the world .
and why not ?
demand for employees in the renewables sector is growing rapidly and consistently .
in the first quarter of 2010 , the monitoring agency wissenschaftsladen bonn counted 2,289 job openings – a fourfold increase on the 528 jobs listed in the same quarter of 2006 .
so far so good .
but there 's a daunting hurdle confronting germany 's clean economy dreams right now .
demand for skilled workers is outstripping supply .
what 's more , difficult immigration policies , a backlash against multiculturalism and concerns about industrial espionage are stifling what could be a potential solution to the problem – skilled foreign labor .
training not enough bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hans joachim moller says employees are needed at all levels of the industry vast , interlinked networks of manufacturing facilities and research institutions have sprung up around the solar industry of the eastern german state of saxony . some 14 percent of positions for qualified employees were left unfilled here during the first half of 2009 , according to a survey released in april by the institute for employment research .
at solarworld , in the city of freiberg , a highly advanced assembly line of robots – each performing a specialized function – manufactures solar cells .
the company is an international market leader that with facilities stretching around the world from the united states to asia .
speaking at solarworld 's freiberg facility , hans-joachim moller , a professor of experimental physics at the nearby technical university bergakadamie , said labor shortages in germany range from researchers and lab assistants through to technicians .
he wants to see more training programs , with narrower fields of focus tailored to the industry , but he concedes that this will only come at a cost to other sectors of the economy .
" of course that means those people will then be missing elsewhere ...
that is a problem which in my opinion can only be solved by getting people - scientists - from foreign countries .
otherwise it ca n't function , " he told deutsche welle .
just 50 kilometers away , the roth and rau company works on a different , but related process .
specializing in the hardware and technology needed to manufacture solar cells , roth and rau has some 800 employees and offers complete factory systems to their customers .
bernd rau , one of the company 's founders , says his company has explored partnerships with universities in saxony , but the search for skilled workers is becoming increasingly acute . " it is more and more difficult , especially for the it people , and also in engineering and mechanical engineering , " he told deutsche welle .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bernd rau says finding employees for his company has become more difficult language barrier there is a push to attract foreign workers , but it may not be enough .
of the 300 educational programs specialized in renewable energy nationwide , 25 are now taught in english .
that 's up from just seven in 2007 , according to wissenschaftsladen bonn .
and some areas of germany may have to try especially hard to be alluring to outsiders .
claudia kemfert , an energy market specialist at the german institute of economic research in berlin , says the german language is a particularly high hurdle when it comes to attracting foreign workers .
on the international market , it 's simply not very appealing .
to compensate , companies located in eastern germany in particular need to offer good salaries and incentives .
" germany has to do a lot in order to be attractive , both in salary terms and attractive jobs . "
yet kemfert also thinks that the renewables sector has a lot of potential to be attractive to foreigners " because these are jobs of the future and the market will increase drastically all over the world . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : feed in tariffs have made installing solar cells an attractive proposition wary of outsiders the trouble is the industry itself can be wary of outsiders , fearing industrial espionage .
when deutsche welle visited solarworld , photography was completely forbidden .
at and roth and rau it was restricted .
both companies have worldwide operations and lucrative , specialized knowledge to keep secret .
in fact , german companies in general fear losing the competitive edge that their knowledge affords them to foreign competitors .
a survey of security experts done by the german association for security in industry and commerce shows that 74 percent say their companies have knowledge which should be protected .
the survey covered 244 experts and indicates industrial espionage affects companies with operations outside of germany .
just one state to the west of saxony , heinrich metzner of the university of jena in thuringia says some of the international students who have studied photovoltaics at his institute of solid state physics have had to leave germany after completing their studies .
once their student visas expired , they were left with little choice but to return to their home countries and apply their knowledge there instead .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : competition from asia is a real concern for german companies built-in growth cap metzner does n't sympathize much with industry 's fears of spies .
he argues that excessive secrecy has little value in any globalized industry .
knowledge is bound to leak , even by legal means , he says .
" it is inevitable in the globalized economic space when you sell machines and facilities , because manufacturers have to guarantee that their products function properly , " he told deutsche welle .
" and so industry ca n't avoid that know-how will be passed on .
it appears that even as the fields of photovoltaic , and renewable energy in general , grow in leaps and bounds , they may increasingly find themselves limited in their options and struggling to operate within germany as qualified employees become more difficult to find .
immigration policies , protectionist attitudes and an unwillingness to accept foreign workers may well be hampering their efforts , and at the rate the industry is growing , it seems that a limited workforce will stunt the industry 's potential sooner rather than later .
author : gerhard schneibel editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iea predicts oil prices will more than double by 2035 the international energy agency has called for oil subsidies to be eradicated as it predicts that oil demand and prices will rise in the next 25 years , despite a push towards green energy .
-lrb- 09.11.2010 -rrb- german parliament passes law to extend use of nuclear power despite public protests and angry diatribes from the opposition , the german government on thursday took the first major hurdle in a parliamentary vote toward extending the lifespans of nuclear power plants .
-lrb- 28.10.2010 -rrb- smart grids play key role in modern energy infrastructure how do you ensure a steady supply of electricity from fickle renewable sources such as solar , wind and biomass ?
' smart grids ' that manage and distribute flows of electricity could be the answer .
-lrb- 06.09.2010 -rrb- german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- germany to cut subsidies for solar energy a law proposed by chancellor angela merkel 's government would greatly reduce subsidies for solar energy production , and in some cases eliminate them all together .
-lrb- 23.02.2010 -rrb- 9799 environment listen to our weekly show about the environment or check out reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 30.06.11 -rrb- the living planet page media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
development listen to this week 's show for development reports from around the globe or check out back editions .
listen to world in progress 29.06.11 world in progress page micro-blog follow the feed get dw 's latest environment stories , and more , right away .
nuclear power readers wrote in to share what nuclear power policy is like in the countries where they live .
readers discuss nuclear policy at home map with international reader response web documentary learn what rainforests do , and how they do it .
take an interactive journey to the jungle © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german jewish leader receives major honor -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 23.11.2010 german jewish leader receives major honor großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : knobloch survived the holocaust as a child in germany the outgoing president of germany 's central council of jews in germany , charlotte knobloch , has been awarded the large federal cross of merit with star , one of the highest honors available in germany . german president christian wulff gave one of the highest orders of merit available to the country 's jewish leader on tuesday , praising charlotte knobloch and her term of over four years at the head of the central council of jews in germany .
" we are honoring a woman of whom our entire country can be proud , and who is therefore receiving one of this country 's particularly high honors - along with our gratitude and admiration , " the german president said at the ceremony in berlin .
knobloch , 78 , survived the nazi era as a child , hiding with a sympathetic german family .
she has held several leading positions in the german jewish community since the 1980s , and took over from paul spiegel as the president of the central council for jews in 2006 .
" it 's thanks to people like charlotte knobloch , that there is such a thing as reconciliation ; that we were able to set off on a path towards a new collective life , a new normality .
we will continue along that path . "
knobloch has been awarded the large federal cross of merit with star , one of the highest orders available to civilians in germany .
" last eyewitness to leave " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wulff said all of germany could be proud of knobloch 's achievements knobloch will not stand for reelection when the central council for jews votes on a new president on november , 28 ; former vice president dieter graumann is considered her likely replacement .
graumann , born in israel in 1950 , would be the first post-war german jewish leader not to have lived through the holocaust .
" with the departure of charlotte knobloch , the last eyewitness will be leaving the presidential office at the central council for jews .
that is certainly a break with history in german jewish culture , " president wulff said in his speech honoring knobloch .
" but this change will not mean that anything is forgotten .
we all well know the obligations we have , not just to the victims of the past , but also to our future offspring . "
knobloch also discussed this prospect in a recent interview with the mannheimer morgen newspaper , but agreed that there was no danger of the holocaust being forgotten in germany .
" the next generation has still grown up with the history of the holocaust , even if we -lrb- german society -rrb- did n't really talk about it for decades , " knobloch said .
" nowadays , jews are accepted in the mainstream of german society , something that for decades was not the case . "
one of the issues on which knobloch concentrated during her term in office was the integration of jewish immigrants from the former soviet union , a fast-growing group with increasing influence in germany 's jewish community .
wulff told knobloch in the ceremony that the large federal cross of merit with star symbolized germany 's enduring gratitude for - and commitment to - her life 's work .
author : mark hallam -lrb- apn , dpa -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de being honored by the fatherland : germany 's federal cross of merit where the uk has its knighthood , and france its legion of honour , germany rewards its loyal citizens with the federal cross of merit .
its most famous recent recipient was the national soccer team coach joachim loew .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- central council for jews in germany celebrates 60 successful years the central council for jews in germany was founded on july 19 , 1950 .
since then it has built up a jewish community of over 100,000 in germany and has been a leading moral voice when it comes to the country 's nazi past .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- german jews ordain first female rabbi since world war ii for the first time since 1935 , germany 's jewish community has ordained a female rabbi .
alina treiger , 31 , will have the same rights and responsibilities as her male colleagues .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
north korea attacks south korean island -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de asia -pipe- 23.11.2010 north korea attacks south korean island großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the shelling set buildings on fire and lasted about an hour north korea has shelled the south korean border island of yeonpyeong , killing two marines and injuring several others , prompting international condemnation .
the north says the south fired on it first . south korean officials and media reports said on tuesday that north korean air force jets fired dozens of shells at the border island , setting buildings ablaze and injuring at least a dozen other people . south korean troops based on the island fired back , and the military was put on top alert , news agencies in the south reported . north korea , meanwhile , said the south had fired first ; seoul acknowledged it was conducting military operations close to the disputed maritime border between the two territories , but said it had been firing west , not north . a senior south korean defense ministry official , lee hong-ki , called the shelling " an intentional attack " and a " clear violation of the armistice " between the two countries . south korean president lee myung-bak said in response that his government was working to prevent the exchange of fire between the north and south .
however , he added that his country would retaliate should the north attack again . a defense ministry spokesman said that a class-a military alert for battle situations had been imposed immediately . major powers condemn the attack un secretary-general ban ki-moon described the attack as " one of the gravest incidents since the end of the korean war " and called for restraint by both sides . in the united states , the white house issued a statement " strongly condemning " the artillery attack and called on north korea " to halt its belligerent action . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german minister said the incident endangered peace german foreign minister guido westerwelle said he was " very worried about this newest development " and appealed for " moderation among the participants . " " this renewed provocation endangers peace in the region , " westerwelle said . japan , china and russia also voiced deep concern over the incident . japanese prime minister naoto kan said he had ordered his cabinet ministers to prepare for any eventuality . russia warned against an escalation of tensions and called the attack " unacceptable . "
in moscow , foreign minister sergei lavrov urged both sides to show restraint to prevent a wider conflict . " there is a colossal danger , which must be avoided , " lavrov warned , adding that " those who started this bear a huge responsibility . " bildunterschrift : yeonpyeong is in a sensitive border area of the yellow sea south korea 's ytn television said air force jets were scrambled , after what appeared to be one of the most serious border incidents since the 1950-53 war .
the two koreas are still technically at war , as that conflict ended only in a truce . local islanders were evacuated to safe areas , and the military and police were checking the number of casualties , ytn reported .
residents were also said to be fleeing the island by fishing boat . unconfirmed eyewitness reports said that fires caused by the shelling were now burning out of control and spreading . south korea 's unification ministry reportedly told ytn that it was considering evacuating its citizens in north korea , who work at the kaesong industrial park and mount kumgang resort . yeonpyeong island lies about three kilometers -lrb- 1.8 miles -rrb- south of the sea border and 120 kilometers west of seoul . the yellow sea border was the scene of deadly naval clashes in 1999 and 2002 , and the north 's alleged involvement in the sinking of a south korean ship there last november damaged already tense ties between the two neighbors . author : gabriel borrud , gregg benzow -lrb- ap , dpa , afp , reuters -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de north korea reportedly fires artillery barrage south korean military officials have said that the north fired 100 shells into waters near the disputed inter-korean sea border .
the incident comes after a south korea accused the north of detaining a fishing boat .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- south korean-us simulation attack drills anger pyongyang north korea has once again criticized joint military exercises conducted by the us and south korea .
the drills come as tension on the korean peninsula is high and speculation about the leadership in pyongyang is rife .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- us announces fresh sanctions against n. korea the us has announced new sanctions against north korea .
the measures are to target pyongyang 's weapons ' proliferation and the import of luxury goods .
-lrb- 21.07.2010 -rrb- north korea proliferation report raises international , regional stakes a leaked un document revealed to reporters in new york recently accuses north korea of defying existing sanctions on arms control and nuclear proliferation by exporting technology to iran , syria and burma .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic north korea shells south korea -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
south asia regional cooperation is making little progress in the strategically important region .
listen to the report in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a berlin designer prompts thought about waste by turning trash , like used teabags , into treasures .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes climate change check out deutsche welle 's multimedia coverage of people and projects combating climate change .
the global ideas page learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
death sentence puts pakistan 's blasphemy law in the spotlight -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 23.11.2010 death sentence puts pakistan 's blasphemy law in the spotlight großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : asia bibi 's family members are hoping for a presidential pardon pakistan 's opinion makers are engaged in a heated debate about the country 's blasphemy law after a 45-year-old christian woman was sentenced to death . pakistan 's blasphemy law has once again become a topic of heated discussion after the recent handing down of the death sentence to asia bibi .
the 45-year-old christian woman was arrested in june last year after her neighbors complained that she had made derogatory remarks about prophet mohammed .
blasphemy and lynch justice when it comes to blasphemy in the islamic republic of pakistan , the law is clear - it is a crime punishable by death to speak ill of islam and prophet mohammed .
although hundreds have been convicted of blasphemy , nobody in pakistan has ever been executed for the offence .
most convictions are retracted after the accused makes an appeal .
however , angry mobs have killed people accused of blasphemy .
in july this year , two christian brothers were gunned down in faisalabad after being accused of writing a sacrilegious letter against the prophet .
fareed ahmad pracha from the muslim movement jamaat i islami is an ardent defender of the blasphemy law .
" we have false murder cases in our country , false witnesses and it is possible that a case may be wrong , " he said . "
" we just want to say that the law should be enforced properly , there should not be any change made into the blasphemy law , we will not tolerate or accept this .
if you make way even for a single change in the law , then there will be a number of changes , whereas there has never been a case where anyone has been punished . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : there have been demonstrations for asia bibi all over the world , including in pakistan call for repeal of the law asia bibi ’ s sentencing to death has triggered an outcry among human rights groups and the international community .
some pakistani politicians have also called on the president to pardon asia bibi .
bibi herself has said that she was involved in a dispute after some women laborers she was in the fields with said they would not drink water from the same bowl because she was not a muslim .
she says they slapped her and pulled her hair .
they apparently later went to the police and accused her of making derogatory remarks about prophet mohammed .
sisal chaudhary , a local christian leader in pakistan , is angry about discrimination against the christian minority in pakistan .
" many innocent people have been killed , " he pointed out .
" people who did not even have a case registered against them .
how can you stop this ?
there is only one solution to this and that is for this law to be completely repealed .
many people have suffered , many settlements have been razed down because of this law , many people have spent 10 or 12 years in prison .
it is wrong to say that no one has been really killed because of this law .
now they want to start hanging people but they have been killing people for a long time . "
shahbaz bhatti , pakistan 's minister for minority affairs , has now been commissioned by president asif ali zardari to look into the case .
a christian himself , he has said it was a personal dispute and asia bibi did not commit blasphemy .
he is due to submit the findings of his report on wednesday .
author : manasi golapakrishnan editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- irish blasphemy law triggers protests blasphemy is now a crime in ireland punishable by a fine .
atheists and the osce have called on dublin to repeal the law as quickly as possible , but some countries , such as pakistan , think it is worth copying .
-lrb- 14.01.2010 -rrb- german-iranian author receives culture prize after religious row after a lot of controversy , the hessian culture prize 2009 has been presented .
one of the winners , navid kermani , received an official apology for being temporarily denied the award .
-lrb- 27.11.2009 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
foreign aid a helping hand the european commission has decided to help north korea tackle famine .
art ming vases chinese art collectors are traveling to europe to buy ancient works from their own country .
threatened communities preserving tribal communities and their habitats can help sustain the environment .
dr. james albert of the society for threatened peoples speaks about the dangers to tribals in india dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
senior policeman charged over germany-bound hoax bomb -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 23.11.2010 senior policeman charged over germany-bound hoax bomb großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police in germany are on high alert for terrorism a senior namibian police officer has been charged with the planting of a fake bomb amid luggage bound for germany .
berlin denies involvement in a security operation , reports say . a high-ranking airport police officer was charged on monday over the planting of a fake bomb in luggage on its way from namibia to germany .
the 51-year-old man was charged at a magistrates ' court in the namibian capital of windhoek with breaking airport and explosive laws .
namibian police said the man had worked for airport security for at least five years , and that there was no apparent motive for the planting of the fake device .
german news agency dpa said that berlin 's ambassador in windhoek , egon kochanke , had denied reports that a security exercise at the airport involving germany had played a role in the incident .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fake device was found in a screening area at the airport " there was no such thing as a german security exercise with a dummy luggage bomb , " kochanke said .
claims of german involvement in exercise a namibian newspaper had earlier reported that an unnamed cabinet member from the country had complained that germany 's involvement had been " reckless and irresponsible . "
the claim that german authorities were involved had also been denied by the namibian government .
the device was found in a luggage screening area at windhoek 's hosea kutako airport and led to the delay of an air berlin flight to munich . an x-ray investigation had revealed a detonator wired to batteries was present , along with a clock - but no explosive material was found .
germany is currently on alert , with warnings of heightened terrorism threats .
public access to the reichstag , germany 's parliament building , was restricted on monday after weekend reports that islamist militants had plans to attack the berlin landmark .
author : richard connor -lrb- dpa , ap -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de does germany need color-coded security ?
experts disagree on the merits of terror alert levels as germany steps up security over concerns of a possible islamist attack .
the country does not have a warning system like those in the uk and the us .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warn that some dangers are being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- suspect package in namibia was a ' dummy , ' says interior minister the suspicious package found at a namibian airport en route to munich was a " dummy , " according to the german interior minister thomas de maiziere .
investigations have begun to find out who bought and planted the case .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 23.11.2010 portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portugal is seen as a future candidate for help portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next . portuguese prime minister jose socrates said on monday that his country 's economy remained robust and that there was no need for lisbon to ask for a financial rescue package .
the comments came after ireland conceded in agreeing to apply for a financial bailout program from the european union and international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portuguese prime minister socrates welcomed the irish acceptance of help portugal is high on the list of possible future rescue package recipients .
however , socrates said that his country 's financial system was performing well and said that its level of public debt - expected to be 7.3 percent for 2010 - was in line with the eu average .
" there are no links between portugal and ireland , " said socrates .
" i 've heard a lot of talk of the imf .
the country does not have any need for aid . "
the prime minister said he hoped that the irish acceptance of a financial package , which follows that of greece earlier in the year , would reassure nervous lending markets .
" i hope that the fact that ireland has asked for european union funds will permit the situation on the markets to return to normal , because portugal is feeling the effects of contagion very much , " said socrates .
lisbon keen to stay in driving seat like the irish administration , which had been reluctant to seek assistance , portugal 's socialist government is keen to avoid the need for outside help and any resulting loss of sovereignty .
such a course of action could prove unpopular with the electorate , with many older voters remembering traumatic interventions by the imf in the 1970s and 1980s .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish rescue deal follows a bailout for greece earlier this year this led to public spending being slashed at a time when the welfare system was too insufficient to provide proper protection for those affected .
however , some believe that both the imf 's approach and the situation of a more developed portugal in 2010 mean that a bailout is not so unthinkable .
" i think the mood against the imf is changing slightly , " economist pedro lains told deutsche welle .
" you see people who are responsible - officials and those connected to the opposition social democratic party - now they are changing their discourse slightly : they 're saying it is not a drama , that if it comes maybe it 's necessary . "
the center-right social democrat opposition has said it will not vote against the state budget for 2011 .
included in the budget are plans to cut public sector salaries and narrow the deficit to 4.6 percent of gdp .
away from parliament , a general strike was planned for wednesday - the first in two decades to be called by both of portugal 's two main trade union federations .
spain also claims to be different in neighboring spain , another country viewed as likely to need help , prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero said there were differences with the irish situation .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland 's prime minister is facing elections after the budget is approved zapatero 's socialist party 's organizational secretary , marcelino iglesias , quoted the premier as saying that bank stress tests during the summer - to assess the preparedness of banks for another financial crisis - had shown that the spanish financial sector was strong .
dublin 's economic woes stem in large part from the necessity to provide its own multi-billion euro financial aid plan to the troubled anglo-irish bank .
a spokesman for the eu 's economics commissioner also ruled out the risk of ireland 's problems precipitating a domino effect .
" there are no analogies to be made ; the irish case is very specific , " spokesman amadeu altafaj told reporters in brussels .
" the decisions concerning ireland are also meant to stop any possible tension and contagion to other economies , " he added .
the dublin rescue package - which could amount to as much as 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- - was agreed on sunday .
author : alison roberts , richard connor -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- portuguese government seals deal on austerity budget portugal 's minority socialist government has reached a deal with the country 's center-right opposition to introduce an austerity budget .
the agreement is seen as crucial step in averting political and financial chaos .
-lrb- 31.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic portugal could be the next candidate for financial aid -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art the 54th biennale contemporary art festival in venice spotlights artists from 88 countries .
watch the video turkey turkey 's opposition has undergone a makeover and is touting new rights for minority kurds .
listen to the audio nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 23.11.2010 portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portugal is seen as a future candidate for help portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next . portuguese prime minister jose socrates said on monday that his country 's economy remained robust and that there was no need for lisbon to ask for a financial rescue package .
the comments came after ireland conceded in agreeing to apply for a financial bailout program from the european union and international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portuguese prime minister socrates welcomed the irish acceptance of help portugal is high on the list of possible future rescue package recipients .
however , socrates said that his country 's financial system was performing well and said that its level of public debt - expected to be 7.3 percent for 2010 - was in line with the eu average .
" there are no links between portugal and ireland , " said socrates .
" i 've heard a lot of talk of the imf .
the country does not have any need for aid . "
the prime minister said he hoped that the irish acceptance of a financial package , which follows that of greece earlier in the year , would reassure nervous lending markets .
" i hope that the fact that ireland has asked for european union funds will permit the situation on the markets to return to normal , because portugal is feeling the effects of contagion very much , " said socrates .
lisbon keen to stay in driving seat like the irish administration , which had been reluctant to seek assistance , portugal 's socialist government is keen to avoid the need for outside help and any resulting loss of sovereignty .
such a course of action could prove unpopular with the electorate , with many older voters remembering traumatic interventions by the imf in the 1970s and 1980s .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish rescue deal follows a bailout for greece earlier this year this led to public spending being slashed at a time when the welfare system was too insufficient to provide proper protection for those affected .
however , some believe that both the imf 's approach and the situation of a more developed portugal in 2010 mean that a bailout is not so unthinkable .
" i think the mood against the imf is changing slightly , " economist pedro lains told deutsche welle .
" you see people who are responsible - officials and those connected to the opposition social democratic party - now they are changing their discourse slightly : they 're saying it is not a drama , that if it comes maybe it 's necessary . "
the center-right social democrat opposition has said it will not vote against the state budget for 2011 .
included in the budget are plans to cut public sector salaries and narrow the deficit to 4.6 percent of gdp .
away from parliament , a general strike was planned for wednesday - the first in two decades to be called by both of portugal 's two main trade union federations .
spain also claims to be different in neighboring spain , another country viewed as likely to need help , prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero said there were differences with the irish situation .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland 's prime minister is facing elections after the budget is approved zapatero 's socialist party 's organizational secretary , marcelino iglesias , quoted the premier as saying that bank stress tests during the summer - to assess the preparedness of banks for another financial crisis - had shown that the spanish financial sector was strong .
dublin 's economic woes stem in large part from the necessity to provide its own multi-billion euro financial aid plan to the troubled anglo-irish bank .
a spokesman for the eu 's economics commissioner also ruled out the risk of ireland 's problems precipitating a domino effect .
" there are no analogies to be made ; the irish case is very specific , " spokesman amadeu altafaj told reporters in brussels .
" the decisions concerning ireland are also meant to stop any possible tension and contagion to other economies , " he added .
the dublin rescue package - which could amount to as much as 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- - was agreed on sunday .
author : alison roberts , richard connor -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- portuguese government seals deal on austerity budget portugal 's minority socialist government has reached a deal with the country 's center-right opposition to introduce an austerity budget .
the agreement is seen as crucial step in averting political and financial chaos .
-lrb- 31.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic portugal could be the next candidate for financial aid -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 - das kulturmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
italy italy 's prime minister has again expressed his disapproval of nato 's mission in libya .
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio russia russia 's defense minister comes under fire from the top over gaps in the country 's armaments .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says aids epidemic is easing off slightly , but the suffering persists -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 23.11.2010 un says aids epidemic is easing off slightly , but the suffering persists großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : united nations statistics show that deaths from aids and the rates of new hiv infections are declining .
but for people living with hiv , the stigma , discrimination and the adverse impact of bad legislation continues . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic our correspondent imogen foulkes reports from geneva .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal - news with business review we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says aids epidemic is easing off slightly , but the suffering persists -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 23.11.2010 un says aids epidemic is easing off slightly , but the suffering persists großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : united nations statistics show that deaths from aids and the rates of new hiv infections are declining .
but for people living with hiv , the stigma , discrimination and the adverse impact of bad legislation continues . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic our correspondent imogen foulkes reports from geneva .
9799 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 23.11.2010 us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraeus said his isaf troops have hard work ahead of them general david petraeus , the commander of nato 's isaf troops in afghanistan , has praised the role of the german military on a visit to berlin .
he also reiterated that security duties would be handed over to kabul by 2014 . us general and isaf commander in afghanistan david petraeus tried to couple optimism with realism on his state visit to berlin , reiterating that the alliance 's target was to hand over security responsibilities to afghan forces by 2014 , but also warning against a swift withdrawal from the country .
" it is of enormous importance that afghanistan not became a sanctuary for al qaeda or other extremists again , " petraeus told assembled reporters in a press conference with german defense minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg .
" the goal is to have afghan forces in the lead in security operations by the end of 2014 .
all our efforts will be aimed at helping afghanistan to develop the capacities to take on this mission throughout the country by that time . "
defense minister guttenberg was also cautious in his assessment of progress in afghanistan , as the isaf troops stationed there struggle against a resilient taliban insurgency .
" we 'll need to breathe deeply , " guttenberg said .
" i think the word ' patience ' will accompany us in these matters for some time . "
karzai criticized bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guttenberg had not met petraeus since the general took up the post both petraeus and guttenberg sought to address recent criticisms of new isaf tactics from afghan president hamid karzai .
karzai specifically pointed to the increasing numbers of night raids by troopers , calling their actions inappropriate and not conducive to reconciliation between western soldiers and afghan civilians .
" -lrb- afghan president karzai -rrb- has long expressed concerns about night raids , if they do n't get the individuals they are after , " petraeus said .
" but i was able to show him the statistics that indicate the very high rate of success of those operations . "
relations between karzai 's government in kabul and the west - not least the us - have become somewhat rocky of late , amid a string of critical comments from all sides .
guttenberg suggested that some of the afghan president 's comments that have caused tension among nato members might never have been intended for international consumption .
" i think it does n't do any political harm to tell president hamid karzai from time to time that statements made with the local population in mind may also have a considerable impact abroad , " the german defense minister said .
" this goes particularly for the political debate in those countries which have allied troops in afghanistan .
we talked about that during -lrb- last weekend 's -rrb- nato summit in lisbon , and i think there 's agreement that more caution and sensitivity will be needed in the future , " he added .
bundeswehr praised bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraues said german troops play a ' key role ' for isaf general petraeus , who is in charge of the isaf forces stationed in afghanistan , was on his first trip to meet with defense minister guttenberg since taking on the job in july .
he also thanked the german military , the bundeswehr , for its contribution in the country .
he praised chancellor merkel 's government 's decision to boost german troop levels in afghanistan to 5,000 , saying the bundeswehr was already performing a " central role " in the country , and that the troop increase would further improve germany 's image .
germany is currently the third largest contributor to the isaf mission in terms of troop numbers , behind only the us and the uk .
a total of roughly 130,000 isaf soldiers are serving in afghanistan .
author : hardy graupner -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : is nato withdrawal from afghanistan by 2014 realistic ?
nato confirmed at its summit in lisbon that it wanted to pull out of afghanistan by the end of 2014 , leaving the afghan security forces in control .
but deutsche welle 's ratbil shamel is skeptical about this aim .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nato to withdraw from afghanistan by 2014 nato nations have approved a plan to start pulling out front-line troops in afghanistan early in 2011 .
however , forces will remain in the most dangerous areas until 2014 , and likely stay in a supporting role beyond then .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- expert pleads for delinking of civilian , military operations in afghanistan europeans should argue for decoupling civilian from military operations in afghanistan at the upcoming nato summit , the head of the eu institute of security studies tells deutsche welle .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 23.11.2010 parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : social democrats put the emphasis on unity across the eu , the greens say ireland is a symbol of failed market liberalism and the liberals insist the goal of eurozone countries should be converging economic policies . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic listen to the report from christoph hasselbach in brussels .
9799 dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour early music days in regensburg -lrb- 1 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 23.11.2010 parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : social democrats put the emphasis on unity across the eu , the greens say ireland is a symbol of failed market liberalism and the liberals insist the goal of eurozone countries should be converging economic policies . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic listen to the report from christoph hasselbach in brussels .
9799 dw-tv europe live made in germany - das wirtschaftsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 23.11.2010 ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cowen has come under pressure from all sides irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf . ireland 's prime minister brian cowen pulled the country out of the frying pan of debt on sunday , only to find himself plunged into the fire of a snap election on monday .
after securing a financial rescue believed to be worth up to 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- in loans from the european union and the international monetary fund , the fianna fail party leader was forced to promise early elections as his political friends and enemies both turned on him .
" it is my intention at the conclusion of the budgetary process , with the enactment of the necessary legislation in the new year , to then seek the dissolution of parliament , " prime minister brian cowen told reporters in a hastily-called press conference .
cowen was effectively yielding to his government 's junior coalition partners , the greens , who called for elections in january , although he did n't promise that they would be held in that month .
the two main opposition parties , labour and fine gael , had demanded an immediate dissolution of parliament instead .
" what is needed now is an immediate general election so that a new government , with a clear parliamentary majority , can prepare the four-year economic plan , complete negotiations with the eu and imf and frame a budget for 2011 , " fine gael leader enda kenny wrote in an e-mailed statement .
first things first bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland requested help with its runaway debts on sunday cowen 's government is set to publish a four-year economic plan on wednesday and a new , cost-cutting budget on december 7 - a process that is crucial to secure loan payments from the eu and imf .
cowen said these processes would have to be completed before the dissolution of parliament , so as to protect ireland from financial collapse .
the junior coalition partners , the greens , pledged to support the government only until january ; party leader john gormley called on cowen to name a date for elections in the new year , saying the irish people needed " political certainty " and had been " misled and betrayed " by the prime minister 's cabinet .
for about a week , ireland had insisted that it could recover its economy without outside help , but caved in on sunday and requested a bailout from the eu and imf , following in the footsteps of greece earlier this year .
the country faces a budget deficit of 32 percent of gross domestic product , a figure which has ballooned because of the government bailout of its largest moneylender , anglo-irish bank .
even without this extra expense , the country 's 2010 shortfall would have comfortably exceeded the eu 's prescribed limit of 3 percent of gdp .
tough sell for european leaders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel may struggle to convince her party and her people that germany should foot part of the irish bill german chancellor angela merkel said on monday that the irish rescue was " positive overall , " because under the terms of the new deal , dublin would be forced to obey terms set by the eu and imf .
merkel said the rescue package was necessary to stabilize the european single currency , the euro .
a similar loan package for greece earlier this year , the first of its kind , was particularly unpopular in germany , not least among merkel 's conservative christian democratic union .
britain 's cash-strapped government , which is implementing its own series of tough austerity measures , also came under fire for contributing to the irish rescue , but the government defended the action .
" ireland is a friend in need , and we are here to help , " the conservative chancellor of the exchequer , george osborne said .
also on monday , the credit ratings agency moody 's said it would probably downgrade ireland 's sovereign debt by several notches in light of the eu-imf rescue .
author : mark hallam -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- eu agrees bailout for ireland eu finance ministers have agreed on a bailout fund for ireland to tackle the country 's huge budget deficit and save its banking sector .
it 's the second eu bailout package this year .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- germany denies pressuring ireland over business tax a german government spokesman said ireland should be allowed to determine its own corporation tax rate , despite recent pressure from a senior finance expert in chancellor angela merkel 's party .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic what is the real price of aid for ireland 's government ? -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- the people of ireland face tough times -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- how the rescue package works -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany - das wirtschaftsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 23.11.2010 bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : borriello fell , but retained his composure to start the fight back bayern munich suffered a shock defeat against champions league rivals roma , conceding two late goals .
the italians came out on top despite a two-goal lead for the bavarians through in-form mario gomez . bayern munich squandered a two-goal lead to hand victory to champions league opponents roma in tuesday 's soccer action .
louis van gaal 's men , who have already qualified for the knockout stages of the competition , went ahead through two goals from in-form striker mario gomez .
although roma started well , it was gomez who broke the deadlock on 34 minutes , when franck ribery skillfully turned the ball to gomez , who beat defender marco cassetti to put the ball into the corner of goal .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gomez has scored 14 goals in his last 10 games five minutes later , a misplaced pass from roma 's jeremy menez was picked up by thomas mueller .
the german midfielder 's pass allowed gomez to double his tally , firing in across goalkeeper julio sergio .
the goal means gomez has now scored 14 goals in his last 10 games .
with bayern cruising , it was up to roma to muster a strong comeback if they were to boost their chances of qualification .
the italian revival began after the restart , when roma coach claudio ranieri moved menez from behind the attack to wide right .
menez easily beat bayern 's anatoliy tymoshchuk and martin demichelis to cross the ball for forward marco borriello .
although boriello fell as tried to control the pass , he was still able to flick the ball into goal past keeper thomas kraft .
late goals seal win the equalizer came nine minutes from time , as john arne riise fired the ball across the box for daniele de rossi to put away .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern have a superior record in their head-to-head encounters with roma substitute francesco totti made it 3-2 from the penalty spot on 84 minutes , after borriello was brought down by goalkeeper thomas kraft .
coach louis van gaal criticized his side for throwing away a lead .
" the problem was , we lost too many balls and gave too many chances to roma , " said van gaal .
" we ’ ve thrown away a game again . " van gaal 's criticism of his players comes as the dutch coach is increasingly under fire for his management style . on tuesday , midfielder ribery said he was disappointed to hear van gaal accuse him of a lacklustre performance in a friendly against third division side unterhaching .
van gaal has also been accused of arrogance by club boss uli hoeness . bayern still top group e with 12 points and can not be supplanted by second-place roma , who have an inferior head-to head record with the bavarians .
in wednesday 's champions league football , schalke play host to lyon and bremen are away to london side tottenham hotspur .
author : richard connor -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : catherine bolsover send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich coast to win over nuremberg bayern munich wrapped up the 12th bundesliga match day with an easy win over nuremberg .
freiburg scored an extra time goal to squeak out a victory against hoffenheim .
-lrb- 14.11.2010 -rrb- by luck or judgment , van gaal has bayern back on course forced for months to withstand talk of " crisis , " bundesliga giant bayern munich are beginning to stir .
with champions league progress now secure , the bavarians may get down to business - and rip through the league .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- bayern ease through to champions league knockout phase germany international mario gomez was given a rare start as bayern munich outplayed romanian side cfr cluj 4-0 on wednesday .
gomez contributed with a hat trick , helping his team to the champions league knockout stages .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live journal - news with reporters we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
women 's world cup live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's next match against france : july 5 , 18:30 utc dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 23.11.2010 dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : buying kagawa was one of the smartest and cheapest things dortmund have done " money scores goals " - so the old football cliche .
but while some pricey transfers have yet to yield dividends , players acquired for relatively little or nothing at all have been setting german soccer on fire . 350,000 euros is a fair amount of a money - enough , for instance , to purchase a comfortable dwelling in a decent neighborhood in most european cities .
but it 's not sufficient to buy the top-scoring midfielder in a major european football league .
unless , of course , that player is shinji kagawa .
dortmund 's acquisition of the japanese whirlwind for the soccer equivalent of loose change has been one of the stories of the year .
but it 's actually fairly typical both of the dortmund squad overall and a topsy-turvy season in which bargains have outperformed big-name signings .
germany 's sportbild newspaper recently did some math and discovered that the dortmund side currently steamrolling the league cost the club less than one-sixth of what it paid for its 2002 squad , the last time dortmund won the bundesliga .
bildunterschrift : barrios ' value has shot through the roof from back to front , dortmund have been getting excellent returns on modest investments .
even the club 's top striker , lukas barrios , only cost 4.5 million euros -lrb- $ 6.2 million -rrb- in transfer fees , a pittance compared with the sums bayern munich paid for mario gomez -lrb- ca .
35 million euros -rrb- or schalke for klaas-jan huntelaar -lrb- 14 million -rrb- .
kagawa and barrios illustrate the impact that good scouting can have .
discovering new talent may be harder than opening up the purse strings to purchase established players ' services , but it 's a better way to improve a squad .
persistence pays off bildunterschrift : cisse was worth the wait for freiburg if barrios is a bargain , freiburg 's papiss demba cisse is nothing short of sensation .
in 29 games for the small southern german club , the senegalese striker has scored 16 goals .
the 1.5 million euros freiburg paid to acquire him from french club metz in the winter break last year may be the highest transfer sum in club history , but he 's been worth every cent .
by comparison , lukas podolski , who cost cologne 10 million , only has 6 goals in 40 matches .
freiburg were originally rebuffed by metz when they made their first bid for cisse at the start of last season .
but they hung tough in pursuit of the man they wanted , and their patience has been rewarded .
bildunterschrift : ya konan has given hanover reason to smile another steal has been hanover 's didier ya konan who came in at the beginning of last season from rosenborg trondheim for 500,000 euros .
his 12 goals in 31 matches does n't immediately take one 's breath away but consider how impotent hanover 's attack otherwise is .
since his arrival , hanover has n't earned a single point from the ten games in which ya konan has n't been able to play .
the ivorian striker was a key reason why hanover avoided relegation last season and are fourth in the table after thirteen rounds in this one .
the half-a-million hanover shelled out now seems like next to nothing .
but some other valuable contributors have in fact come even cheaper .
fabulous freebies bildunterschrift : in piszczek , dortmund got a good defender for nothing even better than unearthing bargains is finding players whose contracts are expiring and thus can be had free of transfer charges .
one increasingly important member of dortmund 's squad is right back lukasz piszczek , who forced the own goal in the 2-1 win over freiburg on saturday that kept the men in yellow 's winning streak alive .
the polish national got relegated with hertha berlin last season , but dortmund recognized his potential .
and after an initial period of adjustment , he 's established himself in a hard-to-fill position for a title-worthy squad .
another way , of course , to acquire quality is to borrow it .
mainz , of course , have done fantastically well with rising german star lewis holtby this year .
he 's actually under contract to schalke , who must be ruing the decision to send him off for a year of development he obviously does n't need .
the undisputed masters of the rent-a-talent game , though , are nuremberg .
the club , as they 're known , borrowed a quartet of players from bayern and hamburg last year and successfully avoided relegation .
bildunterschrift : schieber , right , has helped nuremberg keep an even keel this year , julian schieber from stuttgart and mehmet ekici from bayern have been key members of a squad that has kept a comfortable distance between themselves and the drop zone .
arguably , borrowing talent does little for a club 's medium-term development .
on the other hand , nuremberg are above schalke and stuttgart in the table , and mainz are better than everyone but dortmund .
so it 's hard to take them to task for temporarily acquiring some good players for free .
author : jefferson chase editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dortmund stay top , raul awakens to lead schalke bundesliga leaders borussia dortmund clinched a 2-1 win over freiburg to keep ahead at the top of the league standings .
the much-criticzed raul , meanwhile , hit a hat trick as schalke demolished bremen 4-0 .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- germany coach loew taps young dortmund talent for sweden friendly the mercurial rise of youthful dortmund in the bundesliga has not gone unnoticed .
for wednesday 's match , germany 's coach has called up a quartet of dortmunders .
some may being staying in the national squad .
-lrb- 16.11.2010 -rrb- dortmund widen first-place bundesliga lead with victory against hamburg after goals from shinji kagawa and lucas barrios , dortmund managed to shut out opponents hamburg in friday 's lone bundesliga football match , keeping the team at the top of the table .
-lrb- 12.11.2010 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
women 's world cup live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's next match against france : july 5 , 18:30 utc dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report corruption soccer scandal turkish police arrest 60 people in turkey 's biggest ever soccer match-fixing scandal .
anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
police overworked and increasingly at risk , says new union chief -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 23.11.2010 police overworked and increasingly at risk , says new union chief großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police are often spread too thinly in germany a day after being elected as the new head of the german police workers ' union , bernhard witthaut said german police are spread too thin , overworked and increasingly at risk . bernhard witthaut , the newly-elected head of germany 's police workers union , had not even been in office for a full day before drawing attention to the overworked state of germany 's police force .
on monday , witthaut was elected by his colleagues at a national meeting of the police union to lead the organization , and tuesday morning , witthaut gave an interview with german public radio outlining some of the problems facing german police .
" in light of recent terror warnings and also situations where a large contingent of police has been necessary , we have reached the limits of our capacities , " witthaut said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : witthaut says police have reached their limits in recent weeks , security scares related to failed parcel bombs and media reports outlining a " bloodbath " massacre at the german parliament building has led the interior ministry to increase the presence of security forces at large gatherings and public transportation hubs .
last legs large-scale demonstrations have also required additional a heightened security presence .
the recent transport of nuclear waste to the gorleben storage facility in northern germany came with a price tag of around 50 million euros for security needed to clear protestors out of the way of the transport containers .
in september , demonstrations against a planned train station renovation project in stuttgart made headlines when police and protestors clashed violently .
meanwhile , cuts to police forces and hiring freezes in many states have led to police resources being spread too thin , said witthaut .
" they 're really on their last legs , " he said of germany 's police officers .
political scapegoats christian pfeiffer , director of the criminology research institute of lower saxony , says the current political situation in germany is n't making things any easier for police officers .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police action in stuttgart has been widely criticized " it 's a new problem that the police have to iron out difficulties when political decisions are made without adequate justification or explanation , " pfeiffer told deutsche welle .
" the police are turned into scapegoats when politicians make mistakes with the transparency of their decisions . "
terror warnings issued by the interior ministry , such as the one last week calling on german citizens to remain alert but not to panic , are sometimes vague .
the glass cupola of the german parliament building was recently closed to visitors after media reports of a planned terror attack there , but the government insisted it was all precautionary and would not confirm or deny the media reports .
" even here , there is no transparency , " said pfeiffer .
" it 's not clear if this is really necessary or if this is just a demonstration by the internal security politicians to show they have everything under control . "
risk of violence adding to the stress in a police officer 's life is the growing trend of violence against police .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many police were needed to clear the way to gorleben this has been a subject of debate in german media and the police workers union for some time , but a 2010 study authored by pfeiffer at the criminal research institute has supported these speculations with concrete facts .
the study surveyed over 20,000 police officers in ten german states about violence they encountered on the job in the last five years .
pfeiffer said instances where an officer had to be taken off the job for at least seven days because of injuries sustained due to violence on the job had grown by 60 percent .
" someone who is stressed is less likely to react appropriately in a conflict situation than they normally would , " said pfeiffer .
" the risk - also due to being overworked - of sustaining a serious injury increases for that reason . "
use of bundeswehr troops one solution floated by klaus jansen , head of the association of german criminologists , is to use bundeswehr soldiers in a supporting role with police .
" we have to assume , that the exceptional use of additional police because of the current threat of terrorism will continue well into next year , " jansen said in an interview with the neue osnabruecker zeitung newspaper .
using bundeswehr troops to support normal police presents a legal question - it would require an amendment to the german constitution - but christian pfeiffer thinks there is a better solution .
he says if criminality - not a lack of resources or overburdened police officers - was addressed at a political level and could be reduced , then the current level of police officers in germany would be adequate for them to properly do their job .
pfeiffer thinks bundeswehr troops should - as they have in the past - only be used to support police in emergency situations such as floods .
author : matt zuvela editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warned that some dangers were being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nuclear waste shipment continues to spark determined protests the train shipment of nuclear waste to a storage site in northern germany has sparked massive protests and blockades .
the last stretch is to be completed on tuesday by trucks , but activists have vowed to block the way .
-lrb- 08.11.2010 -rrb- police use water cannons , tear gas on stuttgart train station opponents opponents of stuttgart 's planned train station renovation project have clashed with police in the city 's schlossgarten park , where 25 trees are to be cut down in connection with the project .
-lrb- 30.09.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit reporter we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
terror suspects arrested in belgium , netherlands and germany -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 23.11.2010 terror suspects arrested in belgium , netherlands and germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dozens were arrested police in belgium , the netherlands and germany have arrested at least 10 islamists suspected of plotting an attack in belgium .
another 15 were arrested for allegedly recruiting insurgents for iraq and afghanistan . police in belgium and neighboring countries carried out two separate anti-terror raids on tuesday , arresting at least 25 people .
federal prosecutors in belgium first announced the arrests of at least 10 islamists suspected of plotting an attack on an unknown target in belgium .
" ten belgian , dutch , moroccan and russian nationals have been arrested , " a spokesman for the belgian prosecutor 's office said on tuesday .
the russian nationals were of chechen origin , he said .
one of those russians has been detained in the western german city of aachen , close to the dutch border .
the others were arrested in belgium 's second city antwerp and in the dutch capital amsterdam .
extremist websites under scrutiny the group used the extremist website ansar al mujahideen , according to the prosecutors .
the target has not been determined yet .
" there 's also a website called sharia for belgium , which is dedicated to people who have motive to launch some kind of attack on belgium specifically , " deutsche welle 's brussels correspondent vanessa mock said . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : security measures have been stepped up across germany " but at the moment we do n't know exactly how those websites feed into those groups , " she added .
the arrests followed a months-long investigation initiated by the belgian authorities in late 2009 in cooperation with its european neighbors and the eu 's judicial cooperation unit eurojust .
the target of the attack is not known , but " they believe it might have been on antwerp , seeing as the bulk of the arrests were made there .
it has n't been confirmed , but that 's where the houses were raided , " mock said .
at least 15 arrested in later raids later on tuesday evening , belgian prosecutors announced at least 15 further arrests , made as part of an unrelated set of property searches in brussels .
this second probe was investigating an iraq and afghanistan war recruitment drive , and a spokeswoman for the prosecutor 's office said that " about 15 people " were detained .
belgian authorities said the raids were the culmination of a three year investigation into a belgian islamic center , conducted with the cooperation of foreign police services .
some of the people arrested are suspected members of a group that has been trying to recruit people to go and fight for the afghan and iraqi insurgencies .
no connection to german terror alert but germany 's interior ministry said on tuesday that the belgian arrests had nothing to do with the current situation in germany , where security measures have been stepped up because of intelligence suggesting a terror attack may be on the cards .
even the first set of arrests , one of which was made in germany , was not thought to be connected to the terror warnings from berlin .
" these are measures taken by the belgian authorities , based on evidence suggesting that young belgians are being recruited for the islamist separatist fight in chechnya , " stefan paris , spokesman for the german interior ministry said on tuesday .
the dutch authorities also said that tuesday 's arrests were not connected to the situation in germany .
author : nicole goebel , mark hallam -lrb- dpa , afp , reuters -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warned that some dangers were being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- german interior ministers acknowledge terror threat , call for calm germany 's interior ministers have called on citizens to continue living their lives as before , in the face of recent terror threats .
on the same day , in namibia , a suspected bomb was found on a plane headed for munich .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- germany steps up security on news of planned terror attack germany announces stepped up security in light of information that terrorists may be planning an attack in the country for late november .
security is to be increased at all airports and train stations .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic at least ten suspects arrested in belgian terror plot .
9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread -pipe- protecting biodiversity in suriname -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.05.2011 home europe boreal forests in russia making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa agricultural insurance in ghana climate champions in uganda green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america renewable energy in the caribbean micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features wind power solar power hydropower biodiversity -pipe- 23.11.2010 threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : leatherback turtles have existed for millions of years the earth is home to some 20 million species , and many more that scientists believe have never been identified .
they say species extinctions are on the rise , with repercussions for mankind . the leatherback turtle lives on the coast of suriname .
weighing up to 700 kilos -lrb- 1,540 pounds -rrb- and as long as 2.5 meters -lrb- 8 feet -rrb- , it 's the world 's largest sea turtle .
but sheer size is n't enough to prevent it from dying out .
its reproductive patterns are highly sensitive to rising temperatures : sands in many areas are today so scorching that eggs can not survive , and moreover , sand temperatures determine the sex ratio of turtle eggs .
if the sand in which they lay their eggs gets too hot , more female turtles are produced – which destroys the natural gender balance and endangers breeding success over the long term .
a further problem is loss of nesting and feeding habitats due to rising sea-levels .
taken together , all this means their numbers are declining dramatically and they have been added to the international union for conservation of nature -lrb- iucn -rrb- " red list " of threatened species .
according to experts , if no action is taken to protect leatherbacks , these reptiles , which have existed for over 65 million years , will disappear in our lifetime .
climate change and biodiversity bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : clownfish are losing their sense of smell the united nations declared 2010 to be the international year of biodiversity , with research showing that , via global warming , man is responsible for the greatest extinction of wildlife since the demise of the dinosaurs .
one-fifth of the world 's vertebrates face extinction , according to the latest figures released by the iucn .
in fact , the role played by global warming is a matter of keen debate .
many scientists believe that other factors contribute , such as poaching , and the fact that the consequences of climate change are intensified by pollution .
climate change is also having severe impacts on migratory species .
that is also likely to be increasingly disruptive , experts say .
" these days , you come across species in places where they 've never been before , " said wendy foden , of the species program run by the iucn in london .
" some species are migrating to colder regions , and in south america , that means further south and higher altitudes . "
marine life is equally affected but the animals have fewer migratory options .
increased co2 levels in the atmosphere are changing ocean ph levels , a process which alters many species ' habitat .
what it means for mankind helen foden cites the example of the clownfish .
“ when the water is more acidic than usual , clownfish start to lose their sense of smell , " she said .
like many reef and coastal fish , clownfish are swept off their home reefs into the open ocean as babies , and use their acute senses of smell to find their way back .
the tiny larvae of many coastal fish rely on scent cues in the water to help locate adult habitat .
iucn experts now hope to use the popularity of the clownfish to raise awareness of how climate change is impacting ecosystems .
" thanks to the movie ‘ finding nemo , ' everyone is familiar with clownfish , " said foden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the tiny noblella pygmaea mini frog was only discovered in 2009 species extinction has an immediate effect on mankind .
according to a recent survey carried out in germany , two-thirds of those questioned said that they would be personally affected by biodiversity loss , but mainly in terms of their leisure-time activities .
in fact , the repercussions will be significantly further-reaching .
the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity -lrb- teeb -rrb- study is a major international initiative set up to draw attention to the global economic benefits of biodiversity and to highlight the growing costs of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation . it puts the worldwide economic value of the pollination service provided by insect pollinators , for example , at some € 153 billion -lrb- $ 210 billion -rrb- – proof that species ' extinction is about far more than leisure activities .
however , the teeb study has been unable to give a precise figure to the cost of loss of biodiversity , simply because many species have never been identified . unknown species bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south america is believed to be home to the world 's greatest biodiversity some 1.9 million species are officially catalogued , but this is believed to be just a small percentage of the species that actually exist .
researchers estimate that about 100 species die out every year , and since their function in the ecosystem is not necessarily known , scientists are not in a position to identify the consequences of their extinction .
gudrun mernitz is co-founder of the resource center for marine organisms .
she and her team have isolated several hundred substances out of marine micro-organisms , which are now being examined as potential components in pharmaceuticals . " several might be active against types of cancer , " said mernitz .
in the past 10 years , some 6 percent of medicines developed were derived from natural substances , says rolf hoemke from the association of research-based pharmaceuticals companies .
" it might be anything , even the intestines of a bug , " he said .
the pharmaceutical potential of biodiversity should not underestimated .
researchers from conservation international take regular field trips to document biodiversity and to locate where the establishment of conservation areas would be most constructive .
the idea is that by protecting animal and plant species from pollution and poaching , they may adjust over time to climate change .
author : marion huetter -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de extinction threatens over one fifth of world 's plants the world 's plants are facing an extinction rate on a par with mammals .
one in five plant species is at threat of dying out , says a new study released ahead of the un 's biodiversity summit in japan in october .
-lrb- 29.09.2010 -rrb- russia convenes leaders ' summit to save tigers from extinction the fate of the world 's 3,500 wild tigers is the theme at a conference in russia this week .
leaders from the 13 nations with wild tigers are meeting amid claims that the animals could be extinct within a dozen years .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- 9799 main page english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv .
global 3000 03.05.2011 edition as video on demand radio listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 05.05.11 -rrb- the living planet page get connected global ideas : stay up to date facebook twitter videos on youtube podcast via rss-feed podcast via itunes our planet dw 's in depth reporting on environement and development issues .
click here © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread -pipe- protecting biodiversity in suriname -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home europe boreal forests in russia making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia green industry park in india hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa renewable energy on the cape verde islands dry forests in zambia agricultural insurance in ghana climate champions in uganda green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america energy-efficient wine production in chile solar roofs in brazil natural paradise in costa rica renewable energy in the caribbean micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features biomass geothermal wind power solar power hydropower biodiversity -pipe- 23.11.2010 threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : leatherback turtles have existed for millions of years the earth is home to some 20 million species , and many more that scientists believe have never been identified .
they say species extinctions are on the rise , with repercussions for mankind . the leatherback turtle lives on the coast of suriname .
weighing up to 700 kilos -lrb- 1,540 pounds -rrb- and as long as 2.5 meters -lrb- 8 feet -rrb- , it 's the world 's largest sea turtle .
but sheer size is n't enough to prevent it from dying out .
its reproductive patterns are highly sensitive to rising temperatures : sands in many areas are today so scorching that eggs can not survive , and moreover , sand temperatures determine the sex ratio of turtle eggs .
if the sand in which they lay their eggs gets too hot , more female turtles are produced – which destroys the natural gender balance and endangers breeding success over the long term .
a further problem is loss of nesting and feeding habitats due to rising sea-levels .
taken together , all this means their numbers are declining dramatically and they have been added to the international union for conservation of nature -lrb- iucn -rrb- " red list " of threatened species .
according to experts , if no action is taken to protect leatherbacks , these reptiles , which have existed for over 65 million years , will disappear in our lifetime .
climate change and biodiversity bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : clownfish are losing their sense of smell the united nations declared 2010 to be the international year of biodiversity , with research showing that , via global warming , man is responsible for the greatest extinction of wildlife since the demise of the dinosaurs .
one-fifth of the world 's vertebrates face extinction , according to the latest figures released by the iucn .
in fact , the role played by global warming is a matter of keen debate .
many scientists believe that other factors contribute , such as poaching , and the fact that the consequences of climate change are intensified by pollution .
climate change is also having severe impacts on migratory species .
that is also likely to be increasingly disruptive , experts say .
" these days , you come across species in places where they 've never been before , " said wendy foden , of the species program run by the iucn in london .
" some species are migrating to colder regions , and in south america , that means further south and higher altitudes . "
marine life is equally affected but the animals have fewer migratory options .
increased co2 levels in the atmosphere are changing ocean ph levels , a process which alters many species ' habitat .
what it means for mankind helen foden cites the example of the clownfish .
“ when the water is more acidic than usual , clownfish start to lose their sense of smell , " she said .
like many reef and coastal fish , clownfish are swept off their home reefs into the open ocean as babies , and use their acute senses of smell to find their way back .
the tiny larvae of many coastal fish rely on scent cues in the water to help locate adult habitat .
iucn experts now hope to use the popularity of the clownfish to raise awareness of how climate change is impacting ecosystems .
" thanks to the movie ‘ finding nemo , ' everyone is familiar with clownfish , " said foden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the tiny noblella pygmaea mini frog was only discovered in 2009 species extinction has an immediate effect on mankind .
according to a recent survey carried out in germany , two-thirds of those questioned said that they would be personally affected by biodiversity loss , but mainly in terms of their leisure-time activities .
in fact , the repercussions will be significantly further-reaching .
the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity -lrb- teeb -rrb- study is a major international initiative set up to draw attention to the global economic benefits of biodiversity and to highlight the growing costs of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation . it puts the worldwide economic value of the pollination service provided by insect pollinators , for example , at some € 153 billion -lrb- $ 210 billion -rrb- – proof that species ' extinction is about far more than leisure activities .
however , the teeb study has been unable to give a precise figure to the cost of loss of biodiversity , simply because many species have never been identified . unknown species bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south america is believed to be home to the world 's greatest biodiversity some 1.9 million species are officially catalogued , but this is believed to be just a small percentage of the species that actually exist .
researchers estimate that about 100 species die out every year , and since their function in the ecosystem is not necessarily known , scientists are not in a position to identify the consequences of their extinction .
gudrun mernitz is co-founder of the resource center for marine organisms .
she and her team have isolated several hundred substances out of marine micro-organisms , which are now being examined as potential components in pharmaceuticals . " several might be active against types of cancer , " said mernitz .
in the past 10 years , some 6 percent of medicines developed were derived from natural substances , says rolf hoemke from the association of research-based pharmaceuticals companies .
" it might be anything , even the intestines of a bug , " he said .
the pharmaceutical potential of biodiversity should not underestimated .
researchers from conservation international take regular field trips to document biodiversity and to locate where the establishment of conservation areas would be most constructive .
the idea is that by protecting animal and plant species from pollution and poaching , they may adjust over time to climate change .
author : marion huetter -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de extinction threatens over one fifth of world 's plants the world 's plants are facing an extinction rate on a par with mammals .
one in five plant species is at threat of dying out , says a new study released ahead of the un 's biodiversity summit in japan in october .
-lrb- 29.09.2010 -rrb- russia convenes leaders ' summit to save tigers from extinction the fate of the world 's 3,500 wild tigers is the theme at a conference in russia this week .
leaders from the 13 nations with wild tigers are meeting amid claims that the animals could be extinct within a dozen years .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- 9799 main page english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv .
global 3000 06.06.2011 edition as video on demand radio listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 02.06.11 -rrb- the living planet page get connected global ideas : stay up to date facebook twitter videos on youtube podcast via rss-feed podcast via itunes our planet dw 's in depth reporting on environement and development issues .
click here © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 23.11.2010 us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraeus said his isaf troops have hard work ahead of them general david petraeus , the commander of nato 's isaf troops in afghanistan , has praised the role of the german military on a visit to berlin .
he also reiterated that security duties would be handed over to kabul by 2014 . us general and isaf commander in afghanistan david petraeus tried to couple optimism with realism on his state visit to berlin , reiterating that the alliance 's target was to hand over security responsibilities to afghan forces by 2014 , but also warning against a swift withdrawal from the country .
" it is of enormous importance that afghanistan not became a sanctuary for al qaeda or other extremists again , " petraeus told assembled reporters in a press conference with german defense minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg .
" the goal is to have afghan forces in the lead in security operations by the end of 2014 .
all our efforts will be aimed at helping afghanistan to develop the capacities to take on this mission throughout the country by that time . "
defense minister guttenberg was also cautious in his assessment of progress in afghanistan , as the isaf troops stationed there struggle against a resilient taliban insurgency .
" we 'll need to breathe deeply , " guttenberg said .
" i think the word ' patience ' will accompany us in these matters for some time . "
karzai criticized bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guttenberg had not met petraeus since the general took up the post both petraeus and guttenberg sought to address recent criticisms of new isaf tactics from afghan president hamid karzai .
karzai specifically pointed to the increasing numbers of night raids by troopers , calling their actions inappropriate and not conducive to reconciliation between western soldiers and afghan civilians .
" -lrb- afghan president karzai -rrb- has long expressed concerns about night raids , if they do n't get the individuals they are after , " petraeus said .
" but i was able to show him the statistics that indicate the very high rate of success of those operations . "
relations between karzai 's government in kabul and the west - not least the us - have become somewhat rocky of late , amid a string of critical comments from all sides .
guttenberg suggested that some of the afghan president 's comments that have caused tension among nato members might never have been intended for international consumption .
" i think it does n't do any political harm to tell president hamid karzai from time to time that statements made with the local population in mind may also have a considerable impact abroad , " the german defense minister said .
" this goes particularly for the political debate in those countries which have allied troops in afghanistan .
we talked about that during -lrb- last weekend 's -rrb- nato summit in lisbon , and i think there 's agreement that more caution and sensitivity will be needed in the future , " he added .
bundeswehr praised bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraues said german troops play a ' key role ' for isaf general petraeus , who is in charge of the isaf forces stationed in afghanistan , was on his first trip to meet with defense minister guttenberg since taking on the job in july .
he also thanked the german military , the bundeswehr , for its contribution in the country .
he praised chancellor merkel 's government 's decision to boost german troop levels in afghanistan to 5,000 , saying the bundeswehr was already performing a " central role " in the country , and that the troop increase would further improve germany 's image .
germany is currently the third largest contributor to the isaf mission in terms of troop numbers , behind only the us and the uk .
a total of roughly 130,000 isaf soldiers are serving in afghanistan .
author : hardy graupner -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : is nato withdrawal from afghanistan by 2014 realistic ?
nato confirmed at its summit in lisbon that it wanted to pull out of afghanistan by the end of 2014 , leaving the afghan security forces in control .
but deutsche welle 's ratbil shamel is skeptical about this aim .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nato to withdraw from afghanistan by 2014 nato nations have approved a plan to start pulling out front-line troops in afghanistan early in 2011 .
however , forces will remain in the most dangerous areas until 2014 , and likely stay in a supporting role beyond then .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- expert pleads for delinking of civilian , military operations in afghanistan europeans should argue for decoupling civilian from military operations in afghanistan at the upcoming nato summit , the head of the eu institute of security studies tells deutsche welle .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 23.11.2010 bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : borriello fell , but retained his composure to start the fight back bayern munich suffered a shock defeat against champions league rivals roma , conceding two late goals .
the italians came out on top despite a two-goal lead for the bavarians through in-form mario gomez . bayern munich squandered a two-goal lead to hand victory to champions league opponents roma in tuesday 's soccer action .
louis van gaal 's men , who have already qualified for the knockout stages of the competition , went ahead through two goals from in-form striker mario gomez .
although roma started well , it was gomez who broke the deadlock on 34 minutes , when franck ribery skillfully turned the ball to gomez , who beat defender marco cassetti to put the ball into the corner of goal .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gomez has scored 14 goals in his last 10 games five minutes later , a misplaced pass from roma 's jeremy menez was picked up by thomas mueller .
the german midfielder 's pass allowed gomez to double his tally , firing in across goalkeeper julio sergio .
the goal means gomez has now scored 14 goals in his last 10 games .
with bayern cruising , it was up to roma to muster a strong comeback if they were to boost their chances of qualification .
the italian revival began after the restart , when roma coach claudio ranieri moved menez from behind the attack to wide right .
menez easily beat bayern 's anatoliy tymoshchuk and martin demichelis to cross the ball for forward marco borriello .
although boriello fell as tried to control the pass , he was still able to flick the ball into goal past keeper thomas kraft .
late goals seal win the equalizer came nine minutes from time , as john arne riise fired the ball across the box for daniele de rossi to put away .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern have a superior record in their head-to-head encounters with roma substitute francesco totti made it 3-2 from the penalty spot on 84 minutes , after borriello was brought down by goalkeeper thomas kraft .
coach louis van gaal criticized his side for throwing away a lead .
" the problem was , we lost too many balls and gave too many chances to roma , " said van gaal .
" we ’ ve thrown away a game again . " van gaal 's criticism of his players comes as the dutch coach is increasingly under fire for his management style . on tuesday , midfielder ribery said he was disappointed to hear van gaal accuse him of a lacklustre performance in a friendly against third division side unterhaching .
van gaal has also been accused of arrogance by club boss uli hoeness . bayern still top group e with 12 points and can not be supplanted by second-place roma , who have an inferior head-to head record with the bavarians .
in wednesday 's champions league football , schalke play host to lyon and bremen are away to london side tottenham hotspur .
author : richard connor -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : catherine bolsover send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich coast to win over nuremberg bayern munich wrapped up the 12th bundesliga match day with an easy win over nuremberg .
freiburg scored an extra time goal to squeak out a victory against hoffenheim .
-lrb- 14.11.2010 -rrb- by luck or judgment , van gaal has bayern back on course forced for months to withstand talk of " crisis , " bundesliga giant bayern munich are beginning to stir .
with champions league progress now secure , the bavarians may get down to business - and rip through the league .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- bayern ease through to champions league knockout phase germany international mario gomez was given a rare start as bayern munich outplayed romanian side cfr cluj 4-0 on wednesday .
gomez contributed with a hat trick , helping his team to the champions league knockout stages .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- 9800 dw-tv europe live politik direkt - das politikmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report world cup brazil 's hopes for winning this summer 's world cup depend on five-time player of the year marta .
watch the video anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table. video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- 9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think google street view is intrusive ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think google street view is intrusive ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think google street view is intrusive ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards voting is underway at the bobs - deutsche welle 's annual blog contest .
cast your ballot social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 23.11.2010 latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- is where latvians go to send telegrams while many countries around the world have given up the telegraph , it 's still in use in the baltics .
ordinary residents can send them via latvian post , while latvian railway continues to use them to post speed limits . despite the wide prevalence of e-mail and mobile phones , and the demise of the telegraph in most parts of europe , some latvians , including the state railway , still use the telegraph as a primary means of communication .
this month , latvia celebrates the 158th anniversary of the arrival of the electric telegraph in their country .
the telegraph service is operated by the national company latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the first latvian telegraph was sent on nov .
1 , 1852 karīna jankovska , manager of production development at latvia post said that around 200 telegrams continue to be sent within the baltic country every month , or almost seven per day .
in addition , there are approximately 140 telegraphic messages being sent to foreign countries and about 300 international telegrams are being received in latvia on a monthly basis .
the authorities say that the service is still important for those latvians who want to stay in touch with their friends or relatives abroad .
they mostly send telegrams to the former soviet republics like russia , belarus and ukraine .
the telegraph also allows sending and receiving of official documents , like visa declarations .
alternative to e-mail telegrams , which cost just 0.80 latvian lats -lrb- 1.15 euros -rrb- for a domestic message , can be sent from every post office across the country .
one just has to ask the postman for a telegram form and fill in the required information : the name and surname of the sender , the address of the recipient and the message .
however , latvia post admits that the small number of messages that are sent tend to be sent almost exclusively by older latvians who do not use e-mails nor mobile phones , and by those who prefer it for nostalgic reasons .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvian railways continues to use the telegraph for everyday operations " for example , one can easily send a wedding invitation , " jankovska added . " the sender simply has to write the text and pay extra seven cents for each written word .
i think that most of the people use telegrams nowadays because it is interesting . "
forget about morse code the first public electromagnetic telegraph line in the territory of latvia was opened on november 1 , 1852 .
the line connected the capital city of riga with bolderāja , a nearby residential town .
it was the longest civilian telegraph line in the northern europe at the time and the first telegram was sent in german .
but the telegraph technology has changed greatly during the years .
latvia post doesn ’ t employ any vintage telegraph equipment used in the old days in order to provide the telegram service .
all the telegrams are now being sent by computer over the internet using a special e-mail system between the post offices .
the message is printed out with a printer and then delivered to the addressee by the postman the following day .
meanwhile , the telegraphic messages are being used in business as well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the telegraph remains a bit of an anachronism in modern-day riga the latvian railway still uses teletype to communicate between the stations , freight senders and the ports .
for instance , the company utilizes the old-fashioned technology in situations when any speed limitations have to be imposed on the railway network .
" we don ’ t have yet -lsb- this -rsb- so-called e-signature , " said antra birzule , a latvian railway spokesperson .
by contrast , latvia 's northern neighbor , estonia , has had digital signatures and publicly-provided encrypted e-mail for almost a decade .
" those documents sent by teletype are documented as an official document .
if it ’ s just an e-mail it doesn ’ t work yet in latvia at such a high level because in the railway , the key issue is safety .
so , we still rely on the teletype . "
special place in latvian history many latvians are either unaware of , or have forgotten the telegraph 's key role in latvia ’ s fight for restoration of its independence back in january 1991 .
the soviet political and military forces tried to overthrow the latvian authorities by occupying important governmental institutions .
" when the telephone lines were shut down by the kgb , the so called telex central was still operating , " explained ļevs datelis , a latvian telecommunications engineer and expert on latvian telegraph history . " the soviet secret police didn ’ t pay much attention to it and the latvian politicians used it for communication .
it also enabled them to communicate with foreign countries . "
however , despite this history , karīna jankovska of latvia post added that even though the telegram service does n't lose money , the company plans on shutting down the telegram service by 2015 .
author : ģederts ģelzis , riga editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de row breaks out over latvia 's main anti-corruption body plans to shift the focus of the fight against corruption in latvia from the capital riga to the regions will just weaken the anti-corruption drive , critics say .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- economic recovery at stake in latvian elections latvia is just weeks away from its next general election .
one of the key issues is the country 's fledgling economic recovery .
but the party that is leading in the opinion polls wants to forge closer ties with russia .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- riga on a shoestring want to explore europe but you 're on a tight budget ?
pulse takes you to some of europe 's most interesting cities and proves you do n't have to spend a fortune .
in this edition , dw 's gederts gelzis shows you around riga .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years 9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 23.11.2010 latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- is where latvians go to send telegrams while many countries around the world have given up the telegraph , it 's still in use in the baltics .
ordinary residents can send them via latvian post , while latvian railway continues to use them to post speed limits . despite the wide prevalence of e-mail and mobile phones , and the demise of the telegraph in most parts of europe , some latvians , including the state railway , still use the telegraph as a primary means of communication .
this month , latvia celebrates the 158th anniversary of the arrival of the electric telegraph in their country .
the telegraph service is operated by the national company latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the first latvian telegraph was sent on nov .
1 , 1852 karīna jankovska , manager of production development at latvia post said that around 200 telegrams continue to be sent within the baltic country every month , or almost seven per day .
in addition , there are approximately 140 telegraphic messages being sent to foreign countries and about 300 international telegrams are being received in latvia on a monthly basis .
the authorities say that the service is still important for those latvians who want to stay in touch with their friends or relatives abroad .
they mostly send telegrams to the former soviet republics like russia , belarus and ukraine .
the telegraph also allows sending and receiving of official documents , like visa declarations .
alternative to e-mail telegrams , which cost just 0.80 latvian lats -lrb- 1.15 euros -rrb- for a domestic message , can be sent from every post office across the country .
one just has to ask the postman for a telegram form and fill in the required information : the name and surname of the sender , the address of the recipient and the message .
however , latvia post admits that the small number of messages that are sent tend to be sent almost exclusively by older latvians who do not use e-mails nor mobile phones , and by those who prefer it for nostalgic reasons .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvian railways continues to use the telegraph for everyday operations " for example , one can easily send a wedding invitation , " jankovska added . " the sender simply has to write the text and pay extra seven cents for each written word .
i think that most of the people use telegrams nowadays because it is interesting . "
forget about morse code the first public electromagnetic telegraph line in the territory of latvia was opened on november 1 , 1852 .
the line connected the capital city of riga with bolderāja , a nearby residential town .
it was the longest civilian telegraph line in the northern europe at the time and the first telegram was sent in german .
but the telegraph technology has changed greatly during the years .
latvia post doesn ’ t employ any vintage telegraph equipment used in the old days in order to provide the telegram service .
all the telegrams are now being sent by computer over the internet using a special e-mail system between the post offices .
the message is printed out with a printer and then delivered to the addressee by the postman the following day .
meanwhile , the telegraphic messages are being used in business as well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the telegraph remains a bit of an anachronism in modern-day riga the latvian railway still uses teletype to communicate between the stations , freight senders and the ports .
for instance , the company utilizes the old-fashioned technology in situations when any speed limitations have to be imposed on the railway network .
" we don ’ t have yet -lsb- this -rsb- so-called e-signature , " said antra birzule , a latvian railway spokesperson .
by contrast , latvia 's northern neighbor , estonia , has had digital signatures and publicly-provided encrypted e-mail for almost a decade .
" those documents sent by teletype are documented as an official document .
if it ’ s just an e-mail it doesn ’ t work yet in latvia at such a high level because in the railway , the key issue is safety .
so , we still rely on the teletype . "
special place in latvian history many latvians are either unaware of , or have forgotten the telegraph 's key role in latvia ’ s fight for restoration of its independence back in january 1991 .
the soviet political and military forces tried to overthrow the latvian authorities by occupying important governmental institutions .
" when the telephone lines were shut down by the kgb , the so called telex central was still operating , " explained ļevs datelis , a latvian telecommunications engineer and expert on latvian telegraph history . " the soviet secret police didn ’ t pay much attention to it and the latvian politicians used it for communication .
it also enabled them to communicate with foreign countries . "
however , despite this history , karīna jankovska of latvia post added that even though the telegram service does n't lose money , the company plans on shutting down the telegram service by 2015 .
author : ģederts ģelzis , riga editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de row breaks out over latvia 's main anti-corruption body plans to shift the focus of the fight against corruption in latvia from the capital riga to the regions will just weaken the anti-corruption drive , critics say .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- economic recovery at stake in latvian elections latvia is just weeks away from its next general election .
one of the key issues is the country 's fledgling economic recovery .
but the party that is leading in the opinion polls wants to forge closer ties with russia .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- riga on a shoestring want to explore europe but you 're on a tight budget ?
pulse takes you to some of europe 's most interesting cities and proves you do n't have to spend a fortune .
in this edition , dw 's gederts gelzis shows you around riga .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years feedback have you ever sent a telegram ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 23.11.2010 latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- is where latvians go to send telegrams while many countries around the world have given up the telegraph , it 's still in use in the baltics .
ordinary residents can send them via latvian post , while latvian railway continues to use them to post speed limits . despite the wide prevalence of e-mail and mobile phones , and the demise of the telegraph in most parts of europe , some latvians , including the state railway , still use the telegraph as a primary means of communication .
this month , latvia celebrates the 158th anniversary of the arrival of the electric telegraph in their country .
the telegraph service is operated by the national company latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the first latvian telegraph was sent on nov .
1 , 1852 karīna jankovska , manager of production development at latvia post said that around 200 telegrams continue to be sent within the baltic country every month , or almost seven per day .
in addition , there are approximately 140 telegraphic messages being sent to foreign countries and about 300 international telegrams are being received in latvia on a monthly basis .
the authorities say that the service is still important for those latvians who want to stay in touch with their friends or relatives abroad .
they mostly send telegrams to the former soviet republics like russia , belarus and ukraine .
the telegraph also allows sending and receiving of official documents , like visa declarations .
alternative to e-mail telegrams , which cost just 0.80 latvian lats -lrb- 1.15 euros -rrb- for a domestic message , can be sent from every post office across the country .
one just has to ask the postman for a telegram form and fill in the required information : the name and surname of the sender , the address of the recipient and the message .
however , latvia post admits that the small number of messages that are sent tend to be sent almost exclusively by older latvians who do not use e-mails nor mobile phones , and by those who prefer it for nostalgic reasons .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvian railways continues to use the telegraph for everyday operations " for example , one can easily send a wedding invitation , " jankovska added . " the sender simply has to write the text and pay extra seven cents for each written word .
i think that most of the people use telegrams nowadays because it is interesting . "
forget about morse code the first public electromagnetic telegraph line in the territory of latvia was opened on november 1 , 1852 .
the line connected the capital city of riga with bolderāja , a nearby residential town .
it was the longest civilian telegraph line in the northern europe at the time and the first telegram was sent in german .
but the telegraph technology has changed greatly during the years .
latvia post doesn ’ t employ any vintage telegraph equipment used in the old days in order to provide the telegram service .
all the telegrams are now being sent by computer over the internet using a special e-mail system between the post offices .
the message is printed out with a printer and then delivered to the addressee by the postman the following day .
meanwhile , the telegraphic messages are being used in business as well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the telegraph remains a bit of an anachronism in modern-day riga the latvian railway still uses teletype to communicate between the stations , freight senders and the ports .
for instance , the company utilizes the old-fashioned technology in situations when any speed limitations have to be imposed on the railway network .
" we don ’ t have yet -lsb- this -rsb- so-called e-signature , " said antra birzule , a latvian railway spokesperson .
by contrast , latvia 's northern neighbor , estonia , has had digital signatures and publicly-provided encrypted e-mail for almost a decade .
" those documents sent by teletype are documented as an official document .
if it ’ s just an e-mail it doesn ’ t work yet in latvia at such a high level because in the railway , the key issue is safety .
so , we still rely on the teletype . "
special place in latvian history many latvians are either unaware of , or have forgotten the telegraph 's key role in latvia ’ s fight for restoration of its independence back in january 1991 .
the soviet political and military forces tried to overthrow the latvian authorities by occupying important governmental institutions .
" when the telephone lines were shut down by the kgb , the so called telex central was still operating , " explained ļevs datelis , a latvian telecommunications engineer and expert on latvian telegraph history . " the soviet secret police didn ’ t pay much attention to it and the latvian politicians used it for communication .
it also enabled them to communicate with foreign countries . "
however , despite this history , karīna jankovska of latvia post added that even though the telegram service does n't lose money , the company plans on shutting down the telegram service by 2015 .
author : ģederts ģelzis , riga editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de row breaks out over latvia 's main anti-corruption body plans to shift the focus of the fight against corruption in latvia from the capital riga to the regions will just weaken the anti-corruption drive , critics say .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- economic recovery at stake in latvian elections latvia is just weeks away from its next general election .
one of the key issues is the country 's fledgling economic recovery .
but the party that is leading in the opinion polls wants to forge closer ties with russia .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- riga on a shoestring want to explore europe but you 're on a tight budget ?
pulse takes you to some of europe 's most interesting cities and proves you do n't have to spend a fortune .
in this edition , dw 's gederts gelzis shows you around riga .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years feedback have you ever sent a telegram ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german jewish leader receives major honor -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 23.11.2010 german jewish leader receives major honor großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : knobloch survived the holocaust as a child in germany the outgoing president of germany 's central council of jews in germany , charlotte knobloch , has been awarded the large federal cross of merit with star , one of the highest honors available in germany . german president christian wulff gave one of the highest orders of merit available to the country 's jewish leader on tuesday , praising charlotte knobloch and her term of over four years at the head of the central council of jews in germany .
" we are honoring a woman of whom our entire country can be proud , and who is therefore receiving one of this country 's particularly high honors - along with our gratitude and admiration , " the german president said at the ceremony in berlin .
knobloch , 78 , survived the nazi era as a child , hiding with a sympathetic german family .
she has held several leading positions in the german jewish community since the 1980s , and took over from paul spiegel as the president of the central council for jews in 2006 .
" it 's thanks to people like charlotte knobloch , that there is such a thing as reconciliation ; that we were able to set off on a path towards a new collective life , a new normality .
we will continue along that path . "
knobloch has been awarded the large federal cross of merit with star , one of the highest orders available to civilians in germany .
" last eyewitness to leave " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wulff said all of germany could be proud of knobloch 's achievements knobloch will not stand for reelection when the central council for jews votes on a new president on november , 28 ; former vice president dieter graumann is considered her likely replacement .
graumann , born in israel in 1950 , would be the first post-war german jewish leader not to have lived through the holocaust .
" with the departure of charlotte knobloch , the last eyewitness will be leaving the presidential office at the central council for jews .
that is certainly a break with history in german jewish culture , " president wulff said in his speech honoring knobloch .
" but this change will not mean that anything is forgotten .
we all well know the obligations we have , not just to the victims of the past , but also to our future offspring . "
knobloch also discussed this prospect in a recent interview with the mannheimer morgen newspaper , but agreed that there was no danger of the holocaust being forgotten in germany .
" the next generation has still grown up with the history of the holocaust , even if we -lrb- german society -rrb- did n't really talk about it for decades , " knobloch said .
" nowadays , jews are accepted in the mainstream of german society , something that for decades was not the case . "
one of the issues on which knobloch concentrated during her term in office was the integration of jewish immigrants from the former soviet union , a fast-growing group with increasing influence in germany 's jewish community .
wulff told knobloch in the ceremony that the large federal cross of merit with star symbolized germany 's enduring gratitude for - and commitment to - her life 's work .
author : mark hallam -lrb- apn , dpa -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de being honored by the fatherland : germany 's federal cross of merit where the uk has its knighthood , and france its legion of honour , germany rewards its loyal citizens with the federal cross of merit .
its most famous recent recipient was the national soccer team coach joachim loew .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- central council for jews in germany celebrates 60 successful years the central council for jews in germany was founded on july 19 , 1950 .
since then it has built up a jewish community of over 100,000 in germany and has been a leading moral voice when it comes to the country 's nazi past .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- german jews ordain first female rabbi since world war ii for the first time since 1935 , germany 's jewish community has ordained a female rabbi .
alina treiger , 31 , will have the same rights and responsibilities as her male colleagues .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 23.11.2010 latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- is where latvians go to send telegrams while many countries around the world have given up the telegraph , it 's still in use in the baltics .
ordinary residents can send them via latvian post , while latvian railway continues to use them to post speed limits . despite the wide prevalence of e-mail and mobile phones , and the demise of the telegraph in most parts of europe , some latvians , including the state railway , still use the telegraph as a primary means of communication .
this month , latvia celebrates the 158th anniversary of the arrival of the electric telegraph in their country .
the telegraph service is operated by the national company latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the first latvian telegraph was sent on nov .
1 , 1852 karīna jankovska , manager of production development at latvia post said that around 200 telegrams continue to be sent within the baltic country every month , or almost seven per day .
in addition , there are approximately 140 telegraphic messages being sent to foreign countries and about 300 international telegrams are being received in latvia on a monthly basis .
the authorities say that the service is still important for those latvians who want to stay in touch with their friends or relatives abroad .
they mostly send telegrams to the former soviet republics like russia , belarus and ukraine .
the telegraph also allows sending and receiving of official documents , like visa declarations .
alternative to e-mail telegrams , which cost just 0.80 latvian lats -lrb- 1.15 euros -rrb- for a domestic message , can be sent from every post office across the country .
one just has to ask the postman for a telegram form and fill in the required information : the name and surname of the sender , the address of the recipient and the message .
however , latvia post admits that the small number of messages that are sent tend to be sent almost exclusively by older latvians who do not use e-mails nor mobile phones , and by those who prefer it for nostalgic reasons .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvian railways continues to use the telegraph for everyday operations " for example , one can easily send a wedding invitation , " jankovska added . " the sender simply has to write the text and pay extra seven cents for each written word .
i think that most of the people use telegrams nowadays because it is interesting . "
forget about morse code the first public electromagnetic telegraph line in the territory of latvia was opened on november 1 , 1852 .
the line connected the capital city of riga with bolderāja , a nearby residential town .
it was the longest civilian telegraph line in the northern europe at the time and the first telegram was sent in german .
but the telegraph technology has changed greatly during the years .
latvia post doesn ’ t employ any vintage telegraph equipment used in the old days in order to provide the telegram service .
all the telegrams are now being sent by computer over the internet using a special e-mail system between the post offices .
the message is printed out with a printer and then delivered to the addressee by the postman the following day .
meanwhile , the telegraphic messages are being used in business as well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the telegraph remains a bit of an anachronism in modern-day riga the latvian railway still uses teletype to communicate between the stations , freight senders and the ports .
for instance , the company utilizes the old-fashioned technology in situations when any speed limitations have to be imposed on the railway network .
" we don ’ t have yet -lsb- this -rsb- so-called e-signature , " said antra birzule , a latvian railway spokesperson .
by contrast , latvia 's northern neighbor , estonia , has had digital signatures and publicly-provided encrypted e-mail for almost a decade .
" those documents sent by teletype are documented as an official document .
if it ’ s just an e-mail it doesn ’ t work yet in latvia at such a high level because in the railway , the key issue is safety .
so , we still rely on the teletype . "
special place in latvian history many latvians are either unaware of , or have forgotten the telegraph 's key role in latvia ’ s fight for restoration of its independence back in january 1991 .
the soviet political and military forces tried to overthrow the latvian authorities by occupying important governmental institutions .
" when the telephone lines were shut down by the kgb , the so called telex central was still operating , " explained ļevs datelis , a latvian telecommunications engineer and expert on latvian telegraph history . " the soviet secret police didn ’ t pay much attention to it and the latvian politicians used it for communication .
it also enabled them to communicate with foreign countries . "
however , despite this history , karīna jankovska of latvia post added that even though the telegram service does n't lose money , the company plans on shutting down the telegram service by 2015 .
author : ģederts ģelzis , riga editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de row breaks out over latvia 's main anti-corruption body plans to shift the focus of the fight against corruption in latvia from the capital riga to the regions will just weaken the anti-corruption drive , critics say .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- economic recovery at stake in latvian elections latvia is just weeks away from its next general election .
one of the key issues is the country 's fledgling economic recovery .
but the party that is leading in the opinion polls wants to forge closer ties with russia .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- riga on a shoestring want to explore europe but you 're on a tight budget ?
pulse takes you to some of europe 's most interesting cities and proves you do n't have to spend a fortune .
in this edition , dw 's gederts gelzis shows you around riga .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years feedback have you ever sent a telegram ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards voting is underway at the bobs - deutsche welle 's annual blog contest .
cast your ballot social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 23.11.2010 portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portugal is seen as a future candidate for help portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next . portuguese prime minister jose socrates said on monday that his country 's economy remained robust and that there was no need for lisbon to ask for a financial rescue package .
the comments came after ireland conceded in agreeing to apply for a financial bailout program from the european union and international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portuguese prime minister socrates welcomed the irish acceptance of help portugal is high on the list of possible future rescue package recipients .
however , socrates said that his country 's financial system was performing well and said that its level of public debt - expected to be 7.3 percent for 2010 - was in line with the eu average .
" there are no links between portugal and ireland , " said socrates .
" i 've heard a lot of talk of the imf .
the country does not have any need for aid . "
the prime minister said he hoped that the irish acceptance of a financial package , which follows that of greece earlier in the year , would reassure nervous lending markets .
" i hope that the fact that ireland has asked for european union funds will permit the situation on the markets to return to normal , because portugal is feeling the effects of contagion very much , " said socrates .
lisbon keen to stay in driving seat like the irish administration , which had been reluctant to seek assistance , portugal 's socialist government is keen to avoid the need for outside help and any resulting loss of sovereignty .
such a course of action could prove unpopular with the electorate , with many older voters remembering traumatic interventions by the imf in the 1970s and 1980s .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish rescue deal follows a bailout for greece earlier this year this led to public spending being slashed at a time when the welfare system was too insufficient to provide proper protection for those affected .
however , some believe that both the imf 's approach and the situation of a more developed portugal in 2010 mean that a bailout is not so unthinkable .
" i think the mood against the imf is changing slightly , " economist pedro lains told deutsche welle .
" you see people who are responsible - officials and those connected to the opposition social democratic party - now they are changing their discourse slightly : they 're saying it is not a drama , that if it comes maybe it 's necessary . "
the center-right social democrat opposition has said it will not vote against the state budget for 2011 .
included in the budget are plans to cut public sector salaries and narrow the deficit to 4.6 percent of gdp .
away from parliament , a general strike was planned for wednesday - the first in two decades to be called by both of portugal 's two main trade union federations .
spain also claims to be different in neighboring spain , another country viewed as likely to need help , prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero said there were differences with the irish situation .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland 's prime minister is facing elections after the budget is approved zapatero 's socialist party 's organizational secretary , marcelino iglesias , quoted the premier as saying that bank stress tests during the summer - to assess the preparedness of banks for another financial crisis - had shown that the spanish financial sector was strong .
dublin 's economic woes stem in large part from the necessity to provide its own multi-billion euro financial aid plan to the troubled anglo-irish bank .
a spokesman for the eu 's economics commissioner also ruled out the risk of ireland 's problems precipitating a domino effect .
" there are no analogies to be made ; the irish case is very specific , " spokesman amadeu altafaj told reporters in brussels .
" the decisions concerning ireland are also meant to stop any possible tension and contagion to other economies , " he added .
the dublin rescue package - which could amount to as much as 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- - was agreed on sunday .
author : alison roberts , richard connor -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- portuguese government seals deal on austerity budget portugal 's minority socialist government has reached a deal with the country 's center-right opposition to introduce an austerity budget .
the agreement is seen as crucial step in averting political and financial chaos .
-lrb- 31.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic portugal could be the next candidate for financial aid -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
reader response austerity avoidance as anti-austerity riots continue in debt-stricken greece , readers consider the country 's options .
drugs a french socialist candidate pushes to legalize cannabis ahead of the country 's elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 23.11.2010 ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cowen has come under pressure from all sides irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf . ireland 's prime minister brian cowen pulled the country out of the frying pan of debt on sunday , only to find himself plunged into the fire of a snap election on monday .
after securing a financial rescue believed to be worth up to 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- in loans from the european union and the international monetary fund , the fianna fail party leader was forced to promise early elections as his political friends and enemies both turned on him .
" it is my intention at the conclusion of the budgetary process , with the enactment of the necessary legislation in the new year , to then seek the dissolution of parliament , " prime minister brian cowen told reporters in a hastily-called press conference .
cowen was effectively yielding to his government 's junior coalition partners , the greens , who called for elections in january , although he did n't promise that they would be held in that month .
the two main opposition parties , labour and fine gael , had demanded an immediate dissolution of parliament instead .
" what is needed now is an immediate general election so that a new government , with a clear parliamentary majority , can prepare the four-year economic plan , complete negotiations with the eu and imf and frame a budget for 2011 , " fine gael leader enda kenny wrote in an e-mailed statement .
first things first bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland requested help with its runaway debts on sunday cowen 's government is set to publish a four-year economic plan on wednesday and a new , cost-cutting budget on december 7 - a process that is crucial to secure loan payments from the eu and imf .
cowen said these processes would have to be completed before the dissolution of parliament , so as to protect ireland from financial collapse .
the junior coalition partners , the greens , pledged to support the government only until january ; party leader john gormley called on cowen to name a date for elections in the new year , saying the irish people needed " political certainty " and had been " misled and betrayed " by the prime minister 's cabinet .
for about a week , ireland had insisted that it could recover its economy without outside help , but caved in on sunday and requested a bailout from the eu and imf , following in the footsteps of greece earlier this year .
the country faces a budget deficit of 32 percent of gross domestic product , a figure which has ballooned because of the government bailout of its largest moneylender , anglo-irish bank .
even without this extra expense , the country 's 2010 shortfall would have comfortably exceeded the eu 's prescribed limit of 3 percent of gdp .
tough sell for european leaders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel may struggle to convince her party and her people that germany should foot part of the irish bill german chancellor angela merkel said on monday that the irish rescue was " positive overall , " because under the terms of the new deal , dublin would be forced to obey terms set by the eu and imf .
merkel said the rescue package was necessary to stabilize the european single currency , the euro .
a similar loan package for greece earlier this year , the first of its kind , was particularly unpopular in germany , not least among merkel 's conservative christian democratic union .
britain 's cash-strapped government , which is implementing its own series of tough austerity measures , also came under fire for contributing to the irish rescue , but the government defended the action .
" ireland is a friend in need , and we are here to help , " the conservative chancellor of the exchequer , george osborne said .
also on monday , the credit ratings agency moody 's said it would probably downgrade ireland 's sovereign debt by several notches in light of the eu-imf rescue .
author : mark hallam -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- eu agrees bailout for ireland eu finance ministers have agreed on a bailout fund for ireland to tackle the country 's huge budget deficit and save its banking sector .
it 's the second eu bailout package this year .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- germany denies pressuring ireland over business tax a german government spokesman said ireland should be allowed to determine its own corporation tax rate , despite recent pressure from a senior finance expert in chancellor angela merkel 's party .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic what is the real price of aid for ireland 's government ? -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- the people of ireland face tough times -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- how the rescue package works -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- feedback has cowen made the right move , and did he have a choice ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 23.11.2010 bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : borriello fell , but retained his composure to start the fight back bayern munich suffered a shock defeat against champions league rivals roma , conceding two late goals .
the italians came out on top despite a two-goal lead for the bavarians through in-form mario gomez . bayern munich squandered a two-goal lead to hand victory to champions league opponents roma in tuesday 's soccer action .
louis van gaal 's men , who have already qualified for the knockout stages of the competition , went ahead through two goals from in-form striker mario gomez .
although roma started well , it was gomez who broke the deadlock on 34 minutes , when franck ribery skillfully turned the ball to gomez , who beat defender marco cassetti to put the ball into the corner of goal .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gomez has scored 14 goals in his last 10 games five minutes later , a misplaced pass from roma 's jeremy menez was picked up by thomas mueller .
the german midfielder 's pass allowed gomez to double his tally , firing in across goalkeeper julio sergio .
the goal means gomez has now scored 14 goals in his last 10 games .
with bayern cruising , it was up to roma to muster a strong comeback if they were to boost their chances of qualification .
the italian revival began after the restart , when roma coach claudio ranieri moved menez from behind the attack to wide right .
menez easily beat bayern 's anatoliy tymoshchuk and martin demichelis to cross the ball for forward marco borriello .
although boriello fell as tried to control the pass , he was still able to flick the ball into goal past keeper thomas kraft .
late goals seal win the equalizer came nine minutes from time , as john arne riise fired the ball across the box for daniele de rossi to put away .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern have a superior record in their head-to-head encounters with roma substitute francesco totti made it 3-2 from the penalty spot on 84 minutes , after borriello was brought down by goalkeeper thomas kraft .
coach louis van gaal criticized his side for throwing away a lead .
" the problem was , we lost too many balls and gave too many chances to roma , " said van gaal .
" we ’ ve thrown away a game again . " van gaal 's criticism of his players comes as the dutch coach is increasingly under fire for his management style . on tuesday , midfielder ribery said he was disappointed to hear van gaal accuse him of a lacklustre performance in a friendly against third division side unterhaching .
van gaal has also been accused of arrogance by club boss uli hoeness . bayern still top group e with 12 points and can not be supplanted by second-place roma , who have an inferior head-to head record with the bavarians .
in wednesday 's champions league football , schalke play host to lyon and bremen are away to london side tottenham hotspur .
author : richard connor -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : catherine bolsover send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich coast to win over nuremberg bayern munich wrapped up the 12th bundesliga match day with an easy win over nuremberg .
freiburg scored an extra time goal to squeak out a victory against hoffenheim .
-lrb- 14.11.2010 -rrb- by luck or judgment , van gaal has bayern back on course forced for months to withstand talk of " crisis , " bundesliga giant bayern munich are beginning to stir .
with champions league progress now secure , the bavarians may get down to business - and rip through the league .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- bayern ease through to champions league knockout phase germany international mario gomez was given a rare start as bayern munich outplayed romanian side cfr cluj 4-0 on wednesday .
gomez contributed with a hat trick , helping his team to the champions league knockout stages .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- feedback should bayern focus all their efforts on european success this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
bundesliga picks playing hurt it 's match day 28 in the bundesliga but dw 's tired pundits wish it was all over already ...
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 23.11.2010 us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraeus said his isaf troops have hard work ahead of them general david petraeus , the commander of nato 's isaf troops in afghanistan , has praised the role of the german military on a visit to berlin .
he also reiterated that security duties would be handed over to kabul by 2014 . us general and isaf commander in afghanistan david petraeus tried to couple optimism with realism on his state visit to berlin , reiterating that the alliance 's target was to hand over security responsibilities to afghan forces by 2014 , but also warning against a swift withdrawal from the country .
" it is of enormous importance that afghanistan not became a sanctuary for al qaeda or other extremists again , " petraeus told assembled reporters in a press conference with german defense minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg .
" the goal is to have afghan forces in the lead in security operations by the end of 2014 .
all our efforts will be aimed at helping afghanistan to develop the capacities to take on this mission throughout the country by that time . "
defense minister guttenberg was also cautious in his assessment of progress in afghanistan , as the isaf troops stationed there struggle against a resilient taliban insurgency .
" we 'll need to breathe deeply , " guttenberg said .
" i think the word ' patience ' will accompany us in these matters for some time . "
karzai criticized bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guttenberg had not met petraeus since the general took up the post both petraeus and guttenberg sought to address recent criticisms of new isaf tactics from afghan president hamid karzai .
karzai specifically pointed to the increasing numbers of night raids by troopers , calling their actions inappropriate and not conducive to reconciliation between western soldiers and afghan civilians .
" -lrb- afghan president karzai -rrb- has long expressed concerns about night raids , if they do n't get the individuals they are after , " petraeus said .
" but i was able to show him the statistics that indicate the very high rate of success of those operations . "
relations between karzai 's government in kabul and the west - not least the us - have become somewhat rocky of late , amid a string of critical comments from all sides .
guttenberg suggested that some of the afghan president 's comments that have caused tension among nato members might never have been intended for international consumption .
" i think it does n't do any political harm to tell president hamid karzai from time to time that statements made with the local population in mind may also have a considerable impact abroad , " the german defense minister said .
" this goes particularly for the political debate in those countries which have allied troops in afghanistan .
we talked about that during -lrb- last weekend 's -rrb- nato summit in lisbon , and i think there 's agreement that more caution and sensitivity will be needed in the future , " he added .
bundeswehr praised bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraues said german troops play a ' key role ' for isaf general petraeus , who is in charge of the isaf forces stationed in afghanistan , was on his first trip to meet with defense minister guttenberg since taking on the job in july .
he also thanked the german military , the bundeswehr , for its contribution in the country .
he praised chancellor merkel 's government 's decision to boost german troop levels in afghanistan to 5,000 , saying the bundeswehr was already performing a " central role " in the country , and that the troop increase would further improve germany 's image .
germany is currently the third largest contributor to the isaf mission in terms of troop numbers , behind only the us and the uk .
a total of roughly 130,000 isaf soldiers are serving in afghanistan .
author : hardy graupner -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : is nato withdrawal from afghanistan by 2014 realistic ?
nato confirmed at its summit in lisbon that it wanted to pull out of afghanistan by the end of 2014 , leaving the afghan security forces in control .
but deutsche welle 's ratbil shamel is skeptical about this aim .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nato to withdraw from afghanistan by 2014 nato nations have approved a plan to start pulling out front-line troops in afghanistan early in 2011 .
however , forces will remain in the most dangerous areas until 2014 , and likely stay in a supporting role beyond then .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- expert pleads for delinking of civilian , military operations in afghanistan europeans should argue for decoupling civilian from military operations in afghanistan at the upcoming nato summit , the head of the eu institute of security studies tells deutsche welle .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- feedback is the afghan withdrawal target of 2014 realistic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread -pipe- protecting biodiversity in suriname -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home europe local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia bio-coal in india biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power hydropower biodiversity -pipe- 23.11.2010 threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : leatherback turtles have existed for millions of years the earth is home to some 20 million species , and many more that scientists believe have never been identified .
they say species extinctions are on the rise , with repercussions for mankind . the leatherback turtle lives on the coast of suriname .
weighing up to 700 kilos -lrb- 1,540 pounds -rrb- and as long as 2.5 meters -lrb- 8 feet -rrb- , it 's the world 's largest sea turtle .
but sheer size is n't enough to prevent it from dying out .
its reproductive patterns are highly sensitive to rising temperatures : sands in many areas are today so scorching that eggs can not survive , and moreover , sand temperatures determine the sex ratio of turtle eggs .
if the sand in which they lay their eggs gets too hot , more female turtles are produced – which destroys the natural gender balance and endangers breeding success over the long term .
a further problem is loss of nesting and feeding habitats due to rising sea-levels .
taken together , all this means their numbers are declining dramatically and they have been added to the international union for conservation of nature -lrb- iucn -rrb- " red list " of threatened species .
according to experts , if no action is taken to protect leatherbacks , these reptiles , which have existed for over 65 million years , will disappear in our lifetime .
climate change and biodiversity bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : clownfish are losing their sense of smell the united nations declared 2010 to be the international year of biodiversity , with research showing that , via global warming , man is responsible for the greatest extinction of wildlife since the demise of the dinosaurs .
one-fifth of the world 's vertebrates face extinction , according to the latest figures released by the iucn .
in fact , the role played by global warming is a matter of keen debate .
many scientists believe that other factors contribute , such as poaching , and the fact that the consequences of climate change are intensified by pollution .
climate change is also having severe impacts on migratory species .
that is also likely to be increasingly disruptive , experts say .
" these days , you come across species in places where they 've never been before , " said wendy foden , of the species program run by the iucn in london .
" some species are migrating to colder regions , and in south america , that means further south and higher altitudes . "
marine life is equally affected but the animals have fewer migratory options .
increased co2 levels in the atmosphere are changing ocean ph levels , a process which alters many species ' habitat .
what it means for mankind helen foden cites the example of the clownfish .
“ when the water is more acidic than usual , clownfish start to lose their sense of smell , " she said .
like many reef and coastal fish , clownfish are swept off their home reefs into the open ocean as babies , and use their acute senses of smell to find their way back .
the tiny larvae of many coastal fish rely on scent cues in the water to help locate adult habitat .
iucn experts now hope to use the popularity of the clownfish to raise awareness of how climate change is impacting ecosystems .
" thanks to the movie ‘ finding nemo , ' everyone is familiar with clownfish , " said foden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the tiny noblella pygmaea mini frog was only discovered in 2009 species extinction has an immediate effect on mankind .
according to a recent survey carried out in germany , two-thirds of those questioned said that they would be personally affected by biodiversity loss , but mainly in terms of their leisure-time activities .
in fact , the repercussions will be significantly further-reaching .
the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity -lrb- teeb -rrb- study is a major international initiative set up to draw attention to the global economic benefits of biodiversity and to highlight the growing costs of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation . it puts the worldwide economic value of the pollination service provided by insect pollinators , for example , at some € 153 billion -lrb- $ 210 billion -rrb- – proof that species ' extinction is about far more than leisure activities .
however , the teeb study has been unable to give a precise figure to the cost of loss of biodiversity , simply because many species have never been identified . unknown species bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south america is believed to be home to the world 's greatest biodiversity some 1.9 million species are officially catalogued , but this is believed to be just a small percentage of the species that actually exist .
researchers estimate that about 100 species die out every year , and since their function in the ecosystem is not necessarily known , scientists are not in a position to identify the consequences of their extinction .
gudrun mernitz is co-founder of the resource center for marine organisms .
she and her team have isolated several hundred substances out of marine micro-organisms , which are now being examined as potential components in pharmaceuticals . " several might be active against types of cancer , " said mernitz .
in the past 10 years , some 6 percent of medicines developed were derived from natural substances , says rolf hoemke from the association of research-based pharmaceuticals companies .
" it might be anything , even the intestines of a bug , " he said .
the pharmaceutical potential of biodiversity should not underestimated .
researchers from conservation international take regular field trips to document biodiversity and to locate where the establishment of conservation areas would be most constructive .
the idea is that by protecting animal and plant species from pollution and poaching , they may adjust over time to climate change .
author : marion huetter -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de extinction threatens over one fifth of world 's plants the world 's plants are facing an extinction rate on a par with mammals .
one in five plant species is at threat of dying out , says a new study released ahead of the un 's biodiversity summit in japan in october .
-lrb- 29.09.2010 -rrb- russia convenes leaders ' summit to save tigers from extinction the fate of the world 's 3,500 wild tigers is the theme at a conference in russia this week .
leaders from the 13 nations with wild tigers are meeting amid claims that the animals could be extinct within a dozen years .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think should be done to preserve biodiversity ?
please include your name and country in your reply . main page english deutsch español 中文 عربي dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv .
global 3000 06.12.2010 edition as video on demand radio listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 09.12.10 -rrb- get connected global ideas : stay up to date facebook twitter videos on youtube podcast via rss-feed podcast via itunes our planet dw 's in depth reporting on environement and development issues .
click here © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 23.11.2010 portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portugal is seen as a future candidate for help portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next . portuguese prime minister jose socrates said on monday that his country 's economy remained robust and that there was no need for lisbon to ask for a financial rescue package .
the comments came after ireland conceded in agreeing to apply for a financial bailout program from the european union and international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portuguese prime minister socrates welcomed the irish acceptance of help portugal is high on the list of possible future rescue package recipients .
however , socrates said that his country 's financial system was performing well and said that its level of public debt - expected to be 7.3 percent for 2010 - was in line with the eu average .
" there are no links between portugal and ireland , " said socrates .
" i 've heard a lot of talk of the imf .
the country does not have any need for aid . "
the prime minister said he hoped that the irish acceptance of a financial package , which follows that of greece earlier in the year , would reassure nervous lending markets .
" i hope that the fact that ireland has asked for european union funds will permit the situation on the markets to return to normal , because portugal is feeling the effects of contagion very much , " said socrates .
lisbon keen to stay in driving seat like the irish administration , which had been reluctant to seek assistance , portugal 's socialist government is keen to avoid the need for outside help and any resulting loss of sovereignty .
such a course of action could prove unpopular with the electorate , with many older voters remembering traumatic interventions by the imf in the 1970s and 1980s .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish rescue deal follows a bailout for greece earlier this year this led to public spending being slashed at a time when the welfare system was too insufficient to provide proper protection for those affected .
however , some believe that both the imf 's approach and the situation of a more developed portugal in 2010 mean that a bailout is not so unthinkable .
" i think the mood against the imf is changing slightly , " economist pedro lains told deutsche welle .
" you see people who are responsible - officials and those connected to the opposition social democratic party - now they are changing their discourse slightly : they 're saying it is not a drama , that if it comes maybe it 's necessary . "
the center-right social democrat opposition has said it will not vote against the state budget for 2011 .
included in the budget are plans to cut public sector salaries and narrow the deficit to 4.6 percent of gdp .
away from parliament , a general strike was planned for wednesday - the first in two decades to be called by both of portugal 's two main trade union federations .
spain also claims to be different in neighboring spain , another country viewed as likely to need help , prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero said there were differences with the irish situation .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland 's prime minister is facing elections after the budget is approved zapatero 's socialist party 's organizational secretary , marcelino iglesias , quoted the premier as saying that bank stress tests during the summer - to assess the preparedness of banks for another financial crisis - had shown that the spanish financial sector was strong .
dublin 's economic woes stem in large part from the necessity to provide its own multi-billion euro financial aid plan to the troubled anglo-irish bank .
a spokesman for the eu 's economics commissioner also ruled out the risk of ireland 's problems precipitating a domino effect .
" there are no analogies to be made ; the irish case is very specific , " spokesman amadeu altafaj told reporters in brussels .
" the decisions concerning ireland are also meant to stop any possible tension and contagion to other economies , " he added .
the dublin rescue package - which could amount to as much as 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- - was agreed on sunday .
author : alison roberts , richard connor -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- portuguese government seals deal on austerity budget portugal 's minority socialist government has reached a deal with the country 's center-right opposition to introduce an austerity budget .
the agreement is seen as crucial step in averting political and financial chaos .
-lrb- 31.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic portugal could be the next candidate for financial aid -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- feedback are more countries likely to need help to reassure markets ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 23.11.2010 bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : borriello fell , but retained his composure to start the fight back bayern munich suffered a shock defeat against champions league rivals roma , conceding two late goals .
the italians came out on top despite a two-goal lead for the bavarians through in-form mario gomez . bayern munich squandered a two-goal lead to hand victory to champions league opponents roma in tuesday 's soccer action .
louis van gaal 's men , who have already qualified for the knockout stages of the competition , went ahead through two goals from in-form striker mario gomez .
although roma started well , it was gomez who broke the deadlock on 34 minutes , when franck ribery skillfully turned the ball to gomez , who beat defender marco cassetti to put the ball into the corner of goal .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gomez has scored 14 goals in his last 10 games five minutes later , a misplaced pass from roma 's jeremy menez was picked up by thomas mueller .
the german midfielder 's pass allowed gomez to double his tally , firing in across goalkeeper julio sergio .
the goal means gomez has now scored 14 goals in his last 10 games .
with bayern cruising , it was up to roma to muster a strong comeback if they were to boost their chances of qualification .
the italian revival began after the restart , when roma coach claudio ranieri moved menez from behind the attack to wide right .
menez easily beat bayern 's anatoliy tymoshchuk and martin demichelis to cross the ball for forward marco borriello .
although boriello fell as tried to control the pass , he was still able to flick the ball into goal past keeper thomas kraft .
late goals seal win the equalizer came nine minutes from time , as john arne riise fired the ball across the box for daniele de rossi to put away .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern have a superior record in their head-to-head encounters with roma substitute francesco totti made it 3-2 from the penalty spot on 84 minutes , after borriello was brought down by goalkeeper thomas kraft .
coach louis van gaal criticized his side for throwing away a lead .
" the problem was , we lost too many balls and gave too many chances to roma , " said van gaal .
" we ’ ve thrown away a game again . " van gaal 's criticism of his players comes as the dutch coach is increasingly under fire for his management style . on tuesday , midfielder ribery said he was disappointed to hear van gaal accuse him of a lacklustre performance in a friendly against third division side unterhaching .
van gaal has also been accused of arrogance by club boss uli hoeness . bayern still top group e with 12 points and can not be supplanted by second-place roma , who have an inferior head-to head record with the bavarians .
in wednesday 's champions league football , schalke play host to lyon and bremen are away to london side tottenham hotspur .
author : richard connor -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : catherine bolsover send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich coast to win over nuremberg bayern munich wrapped up the 12th bundesliga match day with an easy win over nuremberg .
freiburg scored an extra time goal to squeak out a victory against hoffenheim .
-lrb- 14.11.2010 -rrb- by luck or judgment , van gaal has bayern back on course forced for months to withstand talk of " crisis , " bundesliga giant bayern munich are beginning to stir .
with champions league progress now secure , the bavarians may get down to business - and rip through the league .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- bayern ease through to champions league knockout phase germany international mario gomez was given a rare start as bayern munich outplayed romanian side cfr cluj 4-0 on wednesday .
gomez contributed with a hat trick , helping his team to the champions league knockout stages .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- feedback should bayern focus all their efforts on european success this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany the year in pop music listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : non-oecd nations must not dam the rules -pipe- environment & development -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de development policy -pipe- 23.11.2010 opinion : non-oecd nations must not dam the rules großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the controversial three gorges dam in yichang , china , is the longest in the world dams are a divisive business .
but if the banks and firms that build them play by environment and resettlement rules , dams can bring crucial infrastructure to the developing world , argues commentator waltina scheumann . at the turn of the century , the world commission on dams published its report " dams and development - a new framework for decision-making " .
it was to be the decisive report , promising to bring an end to the protracted debate on the pros and cons of dams .
gone were the days , it seemed , that dams were on one side praised as the new temples -lrb- nehru -rrb- or the modern pyramids -lrb- nasser -rrb- , and on the other attacked as symbols of the dark side of modernization .
ten years on , though , dams around the world and especially in developing countries remain divisive .
the belo monte storage hydropower station in brazil has been subject to several technical redesigns , and the local environmental authority has laid down strict environmental standards for its construction .
yet these changes have done little to convince the environmentalists , small farmers and indian tribes living in the region , who have announced that they will violently resist the dam 's construction .
another well known case is the ilisu dam in south-east turkey , from which two international financial consortia withdrew because of the turkish government 's failure to satisfy the environmental and resettlement requirements in constructing the dam .
recently , dam projects in which chinese banks and firms are involved have come in for particular criticism because of lax environmental standards .
infrastructure for development brazil , china , india and turkey favor hydropower as energy sources and as part of strategies for climate change adaptation .
but it is the african countries that have most to gain from hydropower .
they are tapping only about 7 per cent of their technical potential -lrb- compared with 33 per cent in south america , 69 per cent in north america and 75 per cent in europe -rrb- .
because a fifth of african households are not connected to electricity and more than 30 countries in the african continent suffer from frequent power cuts , the african ministerial conference on hydropower , the ministerial conference on water for agriculture and energy in africa and the african union 's africa hydropower 2020 initiative have all agreed that hydropower must play a key role in africa 's development , if only because of limited reserves and rising prices of fossil energy sources throughout the world .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is the biggest financier of dam projects in africa china , too , has a role to play in hydropower development in the developing world : china has become the largest financier of dam projects in africa and is catching up in asia , and of the top ten international construction companies , five are now chinese .
while the chinese overseas construction firms operate primarily in africa and asia , their german counterparts concentrate on business through subsidiaries and holdings in the stable markets of the oecd countries .
unfair competition ?
representatives of the german construction industry say competition distortion accounts at least in part for china 's increasingly large slice of the international construction pie .
german firms , they say , are committed to oecd environmental standards , which chinese companies can ignore .
every german company seeking a hermes export credit guarantee must comply with the oecd standards .
in other words , an environmental impact assessment must be submitted with the application to the euler hermes insurance company .
this is not the case with the china exim bank or sinosure .
they base their environmental impact assessments on the host country 's environmental standards , which are often far less stringent than oecd standards .
in parts of the developing world , it seems that the oecd environmental standards are not the main reason for different levels of competitiveness .
studies in ghana and cambodia show that , rather , chinese firms base their calculations on low wage costs and narrow profit margins , chinese construction companies benefit from a fixed exchange rate , and loans are repaid with raw materials – cocoa for the bui dam in ghana , for example .
yet there is some evidence for claims that chinese-funded construction firms may be ignoring environmental standards : in cambodia , for instance , sinohydro has begun building a dam even though an environmental study has yet to be carried out .
the cambodian government has little control over the company , and environmental assessment procedures are explicitly kept weak so that investment permits can be issued quickly , especially in the energy sector .
this suits chinese companies , which do not take international standards as their guide .
in this way , any rivals from the oecd countries are excluded from international competition from the outset .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : waltina scheumann says germany should step up the dialogue with china donors still have leverage the world bank , the asian development bank and bilateral donors including germany are back to financing dams , but only if strict environmental and resettlement standards are observed .
they have adopted some of the recommendations of the world commission on dams and revised their standards .
dam projects that comply with international standards undoubtedly make projects more expensive - so china must be brought on board in the interests of fair competition .
bilateral agreements concluded by a country and an international company wanting to cover its risk with export credit guarantees are subject to the oecd standards and possibly the equator principles , a code of voluntary environmental standards applicable to international banks .
the china exim bank and sinosure are not committed to the oecd standards , since china is not a member of the oecd .
talks between the oecd and china will produce few results for as long as china only has observer status at the oecd .
china sees itself as a global player , one that is concerned with its reputation , and the same is true of the firms and banks mentioned earlier .
sooner or later china will have to adapt to international standards in its own interests .
to bring that time forward , the dialogue with china should be stepped up by the german government at a high political level .
not only in the interests of the german construction industry , but because dam projects all over the world will be rightly denounced by their opponents unless strict environmental and resettlement standards are observed in their construction .
this column reflects the opinions of the author .
dr waltina scheumann is a researcher at the environmental policy and management of natural resources department of the bonn-based think tank deutsches institut fuer entwicklungspolitik , the german development institute .
the german development institute is one of the leading think tanks for development policy worldwide .
the institute draws together the knowledge of development research available worldwide , dedicating its work to key issues facing the future of development policy .
the unique research profile of the institute is the result of the cooperation between research , consulting and professional training .
the institute is building bridges between theory and practice and works within international research networks .
author : waltina scheumann editor : sophie tarr send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de brazil in tricky balancing act to fight climate change the brazilian government has pledged to join international initiatives to combat climate change .
but at home , it 's struggling to juggle powerful business interests with efforts to protect its threatened rainforest .
-lrb- 15.06.2010 -rrb- controversial sudanese dam sparks human rights complaint a human rights advocacy organization has filed a criminal complaint against a german engineering firm over its involvement in the merowe dam project in northern sudan .
the company has denied all allegations .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- the technology behind water power hydro power works on a stunningly simple principle : water flowing through a dam turns a turbine , which drives a generator to produce electricity .
hydroelectric systems come in all sizes , from small plants to mega dams .
-lrb- 18.02.2010 -rrb- brazilian hydroelectric plans fan flames of conservation debate brazil 's environmental ministry has approved the construction of a massive dam on the xingu river .
the country can now open bidding on a contract to build it , but some environmentalists oppose the project fiercely .
-lrb- 05.02.2010 -rrb- feedback is it in chinese firms ' interests to adhere to oecd construction standards ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
environment listen to our weekly show about the environment or check out reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 23.12.10 -rrb- development listen to this week 's show for development reports from around the globe or check out back editions .
listen to world in progress -lrb- 29.12.10 -rrb- world in progress page climate change in-depth coverage of cancun and related environmental topics climate change web documentary learn what rainforests do , and how they do it .
take an interactive journey to the jungle .
weblog ice blog climate news and views - check out the ice blog of dw 's environment correspondent , irene quaile . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
sifiso simelane from malkerns , swaziland -pipe- questionnaire -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs global 3000 video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de home / dw-tv europa : global 3000 questionnaire -pipe- 23.11.2010 sifiso simelane from malkerns , swaziland großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : sifiso simelane works in a factory that manufacturers refrigerators in the kingdom of swaziland . she mostly sees the downsides of globalization , because many workers in her country got laid off owing to the international financial crisis .
despite that , she looks forward to the future – most of all to her upcoming wedding . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic the report as video on demand download here -lrb- mp4 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live video podcasting what is video podcasting ?
rss feed : global 3000 itunes feed : global 3000 © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 23.11.2010 parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : social democrats put the emphasis on unity across the eu , the greens say ireland is a symbol of failed market liberalism and the liberals insist the goal of eurozone countries should be converging economic policies . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic listen to the report from christoph hasselbach in brussels .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
filet of venison stuffed with pickled gherkins -pipe- lamb and game -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs euromaxx video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de home / dw-tv europa : euromaxx lamb and game -pipe- 23.11.2010 filet of venison stuffed with pickled gherkins großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this time around our recipe comes from adam komar , chef at the belvedere restaurant in warsaw . filet of venison stuffed with pickles , mushrooms , and cheese gnocci , served with gooseberry jam and a red wine sauce ingredients for four servings : 800g filet of venison 200g smoked bacon 160g onions 160g pickled gherkins 240g cottage cheese 50g flour 2 eggs 160g mushrooms -lrb- saffron milk caps , chanterelles , and matsutakes -rrb- 100g spring onions 50g butter 100g gooseberries , fresh or frozen 200g sugar 50g white wine 500g red wine fresh thyme , parsley preparation : marinate the filet of venison with crushed juniper berries for two or three hours in a cool spot .
wash the gooseberries .
brown 100g of sugar in a pot , then quench with white wine and boil down to half the volume .
add the gooseberries and simmer until the wine has evaporated .
set aside and allow to cool .
knead the cottage cheese , flour , eggs , and salt into a dough .
form gnocci with a teaspoon and let them soak in saltwater until they float to the top .
set aside .
cut the onions , bacon , and peeled pickled gherkins into small pieces .
sautee the bacon in a pan .
add the onions and pickles .
add salt , pepper , and chopped parsley .
clean the mushrooms with a moist cloth and cut them into pieces .
sautee them with the spring onions in butter .
add salt only at the end .
in another pot , brown 100g of sugar .
quench with red wine , add thyme , and boil down to a third of the volume .
remove from heat and bind the sauce with butter .
remove the juniper berries from the venison .
salt and pepper , sautee on both sides until the meat is medium rare .
bind the roast juices with butter and sautee the cheese gnocci in them .
serving : arrange the meat and pickle mixture in three layers .
add the mushrooms and cheese gnocci .
round out the plate with the gooseberry jam and red wine sauce .
decorate with fresh thyme .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bon appetit ! send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic the report as video on demand download here -lrb- mp4 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live overview beef and pork lamb and game poultry fish and seafood vegetarian dishes rice and pasta desserts and sweet temptations © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
labor bottleneck squeezes german solar sector -pipe- environment & development -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 23.11.2010 labor bottleneck squeezes german solar sector großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in the solar industry , qualified employees are a scarce commodity jobs in renewable energies in germany have quadrupled since 2006 , but a stubborn lack of qualified employees remains .
immigration policy and a wariness of outsiders could hobble the industry before it hits full stride . as in many countries , renewable energy sources are playing an increasingly important role in germany .
thanks to a generous system of feed-in tariffs , they now account for 16.3 percent of the country 's electricity , according to the renewable energies agency .
indeed , germany has ambitions for the sector that go beyond its own borders .
the export-oriented economy is pinning its hopes on becoming a center of knowledge and innovation that will sell the know-how for clean technologies to the rest of the world .
and why not ?
demand for employees in the renewables sector is growing rapidly and consistently .
in the first quarter of 2010 , the monitoring agency wissenschaftsladen bonn counted 2,289 job openings – a fourfold increase on the 528 jobs listed in the same quarter of 2006 .
so far so good .
but there 's a daunting hurdle confronting germany 's clean economy dreams right now .
demand for skilled workers is outstripping supply .
what 's more , difficult immigration policies , a backlash against multiculturalism and concerns about industrial espionage are stifling what could be a potential solution to the problem – skilled foreign labor .
training not enough bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hans joachim moller says employees are needed at all levels of the industry vast , interlinked networks of manufacturing facilities and research institutions have sprung up around the solar industry of the eastern german state of saxony . some 14 percent of positions for qualified employees were left unfilled here during the first half of 2009 , according to a survey released in april by the institute for employment research .
at solarworld , in the city of freiberg , a highly advanced assembly line of robots – each performing a specialized function – manufactures solar cells .
the company is an international market leader that with facilities stretching around the world from the united states to asia .
speaking at solarworld 's freiberg facility , hans-joachim moller , a professor of experimental physics at the nearby technical university bergakadamie , said labor shortages in germany range from researchers and lab assistants through to technicians .
he wants to see more training programs , with narrower fields of focus tailored to the industry , but he concedes that this will only come at a cost to other sectors of the economy .
" of course that means those people will then be missing elsewhere ...
that is a problem which in my opinion can only be solved by getting people - scientists - from foreign countries .
otherwise it ca n't function , " he told deutsche welle .
just 50 kilometers away , the roth and rau company works on a different , but related process .
specializing in the hardware and technology needed to manufacture solar cells , roth and rau has some 800 employees and offers complete factory systems to their customers .
bernd rau , one of the company 's founders , says his company has explored partnerships with universities in saxony , but the search for skilled workers is becoming increasingly acute . " it is more and more difficult , especially for the it people , and also in engineering and mechanical engineering , " he told deutsche welle .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bernd rau says finding employees for his company has become more difficult language barrier there is a push to attract foreign workers , but it may not be enough .
of the 300 educational programs specialized in renewable energy nationwide , 25 are now taught in english .
that 's up from just seven in 2007 , according to wissenschaftsladen bonn .
and some areas of germany may have to try especially hard to be alluring to outsiders .
claudia kemfert , an energy market specialist at the german institute of economic research in berlin , says the german language is a particularly high hurdle when it comes to attracting foreign workers .
on the international market , it 's simply not very appealing .
to compensate , companies located in eastern germany in particular need to offer good salaries and incentives .
" germany has to do a lot in order to be attractive , both in salary terms and attractive jobs . "
yet kemfert also thinks that the renewables sector has a lot of potential to be attractive to foreigners " because these are jobs of the future and the market will increase drastically all over the world . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : feed in tariffs have made installing solar cells an attractive proposition wary of outsiders the trouble is the industry itself can be wary of outsiders , fearing industrial espionage .
when deutsche welle visited solarworld , photography was completely forbidden .
at and roth and rau it was restricted .
both companies have worldwide operations and lucrative , specialized knowledge to keep secret .
in fact , german companies in general fear losing the competitive edge that their knowledge affords them to foreign competitors .
a survey of security experts done by the german association for security in industry and commerce shows that 74 percent say their companies have knowledge which should be protected .
the survey covered 244 experts and indicates industrial espionage affects companies with operations outside of germany .
just one state to the west of saxony , heinrich metzner of the university of jena in thuringia says some of the international students who have studied photovoltaics at his institute of solid state physics have had to leave germany after completing their studies .
once their student visas expired , they were left with little choice but to return to their home countries and apply their knowledge there instead .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : competition from asia is a real concern for german companies built-in growth cap metzner does n't sympathize much with industry 's fears of spies .
he argues that excessive secrecy has little value in any globalized industry .
knowledge is bound to leak , even by legal means , he says .
" it is inevitable in the globalized economic space when you sell machines and facilities , because manufacturers have to guarantee that their products function properly , " he told deutsche welle .
" and so industry ca n't avoid that know-how will be passed on .
it appears that even as the fields of photovoltaic , and renewable energy in general , grow in leaps and bounds , they may increasingly find themselves limited in their options and struggling to operate within germany as qualified employees become more difficult to find .
immigration policies , protectionist attitudes and an unwillingness to accept foreign workers may well be hampering their efforts , and at the rate the industry is growing , it seems that a limited workforce will stunt the industry 's potential sooner rather than later .
author : gerhard schneibel editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iea predicts oil prices will more than double by 2035 the international energy agency has called for oil subsidies to be eradicated as it predicts that oil demand and prices will rise in the next 25 years , despite a push towards green energy .
-lrb- 09.11.2010 -rrb- german parliament passes law to extend use of nuclear power despite public protests and angry diatribes from the opposition , the german government on thursday took the first major hurdle in a parliamentary vote toward extending the lifespans of nuclear power plants .
-lrb- 28.10.2010 -rrb- smart grids play key role in modern energy infrastructure how do you ensure a steady supply of electricity from fickle renewable sources such as solar , wind and biomass ?
' smart grids ' that manage and distribute flows of electricity could be the answer .
-lrb- 06.09.2010 -rrb- german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- germany to cut subsidies for solar energy a law proposed by chancellor angela merkel 's government would greatly reduce subsidies for solar energy production , and in some cases eliminate them all together .
-lrb- 23.02.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think germany should demonstrate a more open attitude towards foreigners ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
environment listen to our weekly show about the environment or check out reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 23.12.10 -rrb- development listen to this week 's show for development reports from around the globe or check out back editions .
listen to world in progress -lrb- 29.12.10 -rrb- world in progress page climate change in-depth coverage of cancun and related environmental topics climate change web documentary learn what rainforests do , and how they do it .
take an interactive journey to the jungle .
weblog ice blog climate news and views - check out the ice blog of dw 's environment correspondent , irene quaile . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 23.11.2010 latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- is where latvians go to send telegrams while many countries around the world have given up the telegraph , it 's still in use in the baltics .
ordinary residents can send them via latvian post , while latvian railway continues to use them to post speed limits . despite the wide prevalence of e-mail and mobile phones , and the demise of the telegraph in most parts of europe , some latvians , including the state railway , still use the telegraph as a primary means of communication .
this month , latvia celebrates the 158th anniversary of the arrival of the electric telegraph in their country .
the telegraph service is operated by the national company latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the first latvian telegraph was sent on nov .
1 , 1852 karīna jankovska , manager of production development at latvia post said that around 200 telegrams continue to be sent within the baltic country every month , or almost seven per day .
in addition , there are approximately 140 telegraphic messages being sent to foreign countries and about 300 international telegrams are being received in latvia on a monthly basis .
the authorities say that the service is still important for those latvians who want to stay in touch with their friends or relatives abroad .
they mostly send telegrams to the former soviet republics like russia , belarus and ukraine .
the telegraph also allows sending and receiving of official documents , like visa declarations .
alternative to e-mail telegrams , which cost just 0.80 latvian lats -lrb- 1.15 euros -rrb- for a domestic message , can be sent from every post office across the country .
one just has to ask the postman for a telegram form and fill in the required information : the name and surname of the sender , the address of the recipient and the message .
however , latvia post admits that the small number of messages that are sent tend to be sent almost exclusively by older latvians who do not use e-mails nor mobile phones , and by those who prefer it for nostalgic reasons .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvian railways continues to use the telegraph for everyday operations " for example , one can easily send a wedding invitation , " jankovska added . " the sender simply has to write the text and pay extra seven cents for each written word .
i think that most of the people use telegrams nowadays because it is interesting . "
forget about morse code the first public electromagnetic telegraph line in the territory of latvia was opened on november 1 , 1852 .
the line connected the capital city of riga with bolderāja , a nearby residential town .
it was the longest civilian telegraph line in the northern europe at the time and the first telegram was sent in german .
but the telegraph technology has changed greatly during the years .
latvia post doesn ’ t employ any vintage telegraph equipment used in the old days in order to provide the telegram service .
all the telegrams are now being sent by computer over the internet using a special e-mail system between the post offices .
the message is printed out with a printer and then delivered to the addressee by the postman the following day .
meanwhile , the telegraphic messages are being used in business as well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the telegraph remains a bit of an anachronism in modern-day riga the latvian railway still uses teletype to communicate between the stations , freight senders and the ports .
for instance , the company utilizes the old-fashioned technology in situations when any speed limitations have to be imposed on the railway network .
" we don ’ t have yet -lsb- this -rsb- so-called e-signature , " said antra birzule , a latvian railway spokesperson .
by contrast , latvia 's northern neighbor , estonia , has had digital signatures and publicly-provided encrypted e-mail for almost a decade .
" those documents sent by teletype are documented as an official document .
if it ’ s just an e-mail it doesn ’ t work yet in latvia at such a high level because in the railway , the key issue is safety .
so , we still rely on the teletype . "
special place in latvian history many latvians are either unaware of , or have forgotten the telegraph 's key role in latvia ’ s fight for restoration of its independence back in january 1991 .
the soviet political and military forces tried to overthrow the latvian authorities by occupying important governmental institutions .
" when the telephone lines were shut down by the kgb , the so called telex central was still operating , " explained ļevs datelis , a latvian telecommunications engineer and expert on latvian telegraph history . " the soviet secret police didn ’ t pay much attention to it and the latvian politicians used it for communication .
it also enabled them to communicate with foreign countries . "
however , despite this history , karīna jankovska of latvia post added that even though the telegram service does n't lose money , the company plans on shutting down the telegram service by 2015 .
author : ģederts ģelzis , riga editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de row breaks out over latvia 's main anti-corruption body plans to shift the focus of the fight against corruption in latvia from the capital riga to the regions will just weaken the anti-corruption drive , critics say .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- economic recovery at stake in latvian elections latvia is just weeks away from its next general election .
one of the key issues is the country 's fledgling economic recovery .
but the party that is leading in the opinion polls wants to forge closer ties with russia .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- riga on a shoestring want to explore europe but you 're on a tight budget ?
pulse takes you to some of europe 's most interesting cities and proves you do n't have to spend a fortune .
in this edition , dw 's gederts gelzis shows you around riga .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years feedback have you ever sent a telegram ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 23.11.2010 latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- is where latvians go to send telegrams while many countries around the world have given up the telegraph , it 's still in use in the baltics .
ordinary residents can send them via latvian post , while latvian railway continues to use them to post speed limits . despite the wide prevalence of e-mail and mobile phones , and the demise of the telegraph in most parts of europe , some latvians , including the state railway , still use the telegraph as a primary means of communication .
this month , latvia celebrates the 158th anniversary of the arrival of the electric telegraph in their country .
the telegraph service is operated by the national company latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the first latvian telegraph was sent on nov .
1 , 1852 karīna jankovska , manager of production development at latvia post said that around 200 telegrams continue to be sent within the baltic country every month , or almost seven per day .
in addition , there are approximately 140 telegraphic messages being sent to foreign countries and about 300 international telegrams are being received in latvia on a monthly basis .
the authorities say that the service is still important for those latvians who want to stay in touch with their friends or relatives abroad .
they mostly send telegrams to the former soviet republics like russia , belarus and ukraine .
the telegraph also allows sending and receiving of official documents , like visa declarations .
alternative to e-mail telegrams , which cost just 0.80 latvian lats -lrb- 1.15 euros -rrb- for a domestic message , can be sent from every post office across the country .
one just has to ask the postman for a telegram form and fill in the required information : the name and surname of the sender , the address of the recipient and the message .
however , latvia post admits that the small number of messages that are sent tend to be sent almost exclusively by older latvians who do not use e-mails nor mobile phones , and by those who prefer it for nostalgic reasons .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvian railways continues to use the telegraph for everyday operations " for example , one can easily send a wedding invitation , " jankovska added . " the sender simply has to write the text and pay extra seven cents for each written word .
i think that most of the people use telegrams nowadays because it is interesting . "
forget about morse code the first public electromagnetic telegraph line in the territory of latvia was opened on november 1 , 1852 .
the line connected the capital city of riga with bolderāja , a nearby residential town .
it was the longest civilian telegraph line in the northern europe at the time and the first telegram was sent in german .
but the telegraph technology has changed greatly during the years .
latvia post doesn ’ t employ any vintage telegraph equipment used in the old days in order to provide the telegram service .
all the telegrams are now being sent by computer over the internet using a special e-mail system between the post offices .
the message is printed out with a printer and then delivered to the addressee by the postman the following day .
meanwhile , the telegraphic messages are being used in business as well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the telegraph remains a bit of an anachronism in modern-day riga the latvian railway still uses teletype to communicate between the stations , freight senders and the ports .
for instance , the company utilizes the old-fashioned technology in situations when any speed limitations have to be imposed on the railway network .
" we don ’ t have yet -lsb- this -rsb- so-called e-signature , " said antra birzule , a latvian railway spokesperson .
by contrast , latvia 's northern neighbor , estonia , has had digital signatures and publicly-provided encrypted e-mail for almost a decade .
" those documents sent by teletype are documented as an official document .
if it ’ s just an e-mail it doesn ’ t work yet in latvia at such a high level because in the railway , the key issue is safety .
so , we still rely on the teletype . "
special place in latvian history many latvians are either unaware of , or have forgotten the telegraph 's key role in latvia ’ s fight for restoration of its independence back in january 1991 .
the soviet political and military forces tried to overthrow the latvian authorities by occupying important governmental institutions .
" when the telephone lines were shut down by the kgb , the so called telex central was still operating , " explained ļevs datelis , a latvian telecommunications engineer and expert on latvian telegraph history . " the soviet secret police didn ’ t pay much attention to it and the latvian politicians used it for communication .
it also enabled them to communicate with foreign countries . "
however , despite this history , karīna jankovska of latvia post added that even though the telegram service does n't lose money , the company plans on shutting down the telegram service by 2015 .
author : ģederts ģelzis , riga editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de row breaks out over latvia 's main anti-corruption body plans to shift the focus of the fight against corruption in latvia from the capital riga to the regions will just weaken the anti-corruption drive , critics say .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- economic recovery at stake in latvian elections latvia is just weeks away from its next general election .
one of the key issues is the country 's fledgling economic recovery .
but the party that is leading in the opinion polls wants to forge closer ties with russia .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- riga on a shoestring want to explore europe but you 're on a tight budget ?
pulse takes you to some of europe 's most interesting cities and proves you do n't have to spend a fortune .
in this edition , dw 's gederts gelzis shows you around riga .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years feedback have you ever sent a telegram ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 23.11.2010 ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cowen has come under pressure from all sides irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf . ireland 's prime minister brian cowen pulled the country out of the frying pan of debt on sunday , only to find himself plunged into the fire of a snap election on monday .
after securing a financial rescue believed to be worth up to 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- in loans from the european union and the international monetary fund , the fianna fail party leader was forced to promise early elections as his political friends and enemies both turned on him .
" it is my intention at the conclusion of the budgetary process , with the enactment of the necessary legislation in the new year , to then seek the dissolution of parliament , " prime minister brian cowen told reporters in a hastily-called press conference .
cowen was effectively yielding to his government 's junior coalition partners , the greens , who called for elections in january , although he did n't promise that they would be held in that month .
the two main opposition parties , labour and fine gael , had demanded an immediate dissolution of parliament instead .
" what is needed now is an immediate general election so that a new government , with a clear parliamentary majority , can prepare the four-year economic plan , complete negotiations with the eu and imf and frame a budget for 2011 , " fine gael leader enda kenny wrote in an e-mailed statement .
first things first bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland requested help with its runaway debts on sunday cowen 's government is set to publish a four-year economic plan on wednesday and a new , cost-cutting budget on december 7 - a process that is crucial to secure loan payments from the eu and imf .
cowen said these processes would have to be completed before the dissolution of parliament , so as to protect ireland from financial collapse .
the junior coalition partners , the greens , pledged to support the government only until january ; party leader john gormley called on cowen to name a date for elections in the new year , saying the irish people needed " political certainty " and had been " misled and betrayed " by the prime minister 's cabinet .
for about a week , ireland had insisted that it could recover its economy without outside help , but caved in on sunday and requested a bailout from the eu and imf , following in the footsteps of greece earlier this year .
the country faces a budget deficit of 32 percent of gross domestic product , a figure which has ballooned because of the government bailout of its largest moneylender , anglo-irish bank .
even without this extra expense , the country 's 2010 shortfall would have comfortably exceeded the eu 's prescribed limit of 3 percent of gdp .
tough sell for european leaders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel may struggle to convince her party and her people that germany should foot part of the irish bill german chancellor angela merkel said on monday that the irish rescue was " positive overall , " because under the terms of the new deal , dublin would be forced to obey terms set by the eu and imf .
merkel said the rescue package was necessary to stabilize the european single currency , the euro .
a similar loan package for greece earlier this year , the first of its kind , was particularly unpopular in germany , not least among merkel 's conservative christian democratic union .
britain 's cash-strapped government , which is implementing its own series of tough austerity measures , also came under fire for contributing to the irish rescue , but the government defended the action .
" ireland is a friend in need , and we are here to help , " the conservative chancellor of the exchequer , george osborne said .
also on monday , the credit ratings agency moody 's said it would probably downgrade ireland 's sovereign debt by several notches in light of the eu-imf rescue .
author : mark hallam -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- eu agrees bailout for ireland eu finance ministers have agreed on a bailout fund for ireland to tackle the country 's huge budget deficit and save its banking sector .
it 's the second eu bailout package this year .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- germany denies pressuring ireland over business tax a german government spokesman said ireland should be allowed to determine its own corporation tax rate , despite recent pressure from a senior finance expert in chancellor angela merkel 's party .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic what is the real price of aid for ireland 's government ? -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- the people of ireland face tough times -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- how the rescue package works -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- feedback has cowen made the right move , and did he have a choice ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think google street view is intrusive ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 23.11.2010 ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cowen has come under pressure from all sides irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf . ireland 's prime minister brian cowen pulled the country out of the frying pan of debt on sunday , only to find himself plunged into the fire of a snap election on monday .
after securing a financial rescue believed to be worth up to 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- in loans from the european union and the international monetary fund , the fianna fail party leader was forced to promise early elections as his political friends and enemies both turned on him .
" it is my intention at the conclusion of the budgetary process , with the enactment of the necessary legislation in the new year , to then seek the dissolution of parliament , " prime minister brian cowen told reporters in a hastily-called press conference .
cowen was effectively yielding to his government 's junior coalition partners , the greens , who called for elections in january , although he did n't promise that they would be held in that month .
the two main opposition parties , labour and fine gael , had demanded an immediate dissolution of parliament instead .
" what is needed now is an immediate general election so that a new government , with a clear parliamentary majority , can prepare the four-year economic plan , complete negotiations with the eu and imf and frame a budget for 2011 , " fine gael leader enda kenny wrote in an e-mailed statement .
first things first bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland requested help with its runaway debts on sunday cowen 's government is set to publish a four-year economic plan on wednesday and a new , cost-cutting budget on december 7 - a process that is crucial to secure loan payments from the eu and imf .
cowen said these processes would have to be completed before the dissolution of parliament , so as to protect ireland from financial collapse .
the junior coalition partners , the greens , pledged to support the government only until january ; party leader john gormley called on cowen to name a date for elections in the new year , saying the irish people needed " political certainty " and had been " misled and betrayed " by the prime minister 's cabinet .
for about a week , ireland had insisted that it could recover its economy without outside help , but caved in on sunday and requested a bailout from the eu and imf , following in the footsteps of greece earlier this year .
the country faces a budget deficit of 32 percent of gross domestic product , a figure which has ballooned because of the government bailout of its largest moneylender , anglo-irish bank .
even without this extra expense , the country 's 2010 shortfall would have comfortably exceeded the eu 's prescribed limit of 3 percent of gdp .
tough sell for european leaders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel may struggle to convince her party and her people that germany should foot part of the irish bill german chancellor angela merkel said on monday that the irish rescue was " positive overall , " because under the terms of the new deal , dublin would be forced to obey terms set by the eu and imf .
merkel said the rescue package was necessary to stabilize the european single currency , the euro .
a similar loan package for greece earlier this year , the first of its kind , was particularly unpopular in germany , not least among merkel 's conservative christian democratic union .
britain 's cash-strapped government , which is implementing its own series of tough austerity measures , also came under fire for contributing to the irish rescue , but the government defended the action .
" ireland is a friend in need , and we are here to help , " the conservative chancellor of the exchequer , george osborne said .
also on monday , the credit ratings agency moody 's said it would probably downgrade ireland 's sovereign debt by several notches in light of the eu-imf rescue .
author : mark hallam -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- eu agrees bailout for ireland eu finance ministers have agreed on a bailout fund for ireland to tackle the country 's huge budget deficit and save its banking sector .
it 's the second eu bailout package this year .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- germany denies pressuring ireland over business tax a german government spokesman said ireland should be allowed to determine its own corporation tax rate , despite recent pressure from a senior finance expert in chancellor angela merkel 's party .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic what is the real price of aid for ireland 's government ? -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- the people of ireland face tough times -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- how the rescue package works -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- feedback has cowen made the right move , and did he have a choice ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
police overworked and increasingly at risk , says new union chief -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 23.11.2010 police overworked and increasingly at risk , says new union chief großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police are often spread too thinly in germany a day after being elected as the new head of the german police workers ' union , bernhard witthaut said german police are spread too thin , overworked and increasingly at risk . bernhard witthaut , the newly-elected head of germany 's police workers union , had not even been in office for a full day before drawing attention to the overworked state of germany 's police force .
on monday , witthaut was elected by his colleagues at a national meeting of the police union to lead the organization , and tuesday morning , witthaut gave an interview with german public radio outlining some of the problems facing german police .
" in light of recent terror warnings and also situations where a large contingent of police has been necessary , we have reached the limits of our capacities , " witthaut said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : witthaut says police have reached their limits in recent weeks , security scares related to failed parcel bombs and media reports outlining a " bloodbath " massacre at the german parliament building has led the interior ministry to increase the presence of security forces at large gatherings and public transportation hubs .
last legs large-scale demonstrations have also required additional a heightened security presence .
the recent transport of nuclear waste to the gorleben storage facility in northern germany came with a price tag of around 50 million euros for security needed to clear protestors out of the way of the transport containers .
in september , demonstrations against a planned train station renovation project in stuttgart made headlines when police and protestors clashed violently .
meanwhile , cuts to police forces and hiring freezes in many states have led to police resources being spread too thin , said witthaut .
" they 're really on their last legs , " he said of germany 's police officers .
political scapegoats christian pfeiffer , director of the criminology research institute of lower saxony , says the current political situation in germany is n't making things any easier for police officers .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police action in stuttgart has been widely criticized " it 's a new problem that the police have to iron out difficulties when political decisions are made without adequate justification or explanation , " pfeiffer told deutsche welle .
" the police are turned into scapegoats when politicians make mistakes with the transparency of their decisions . "
terror warnings issued by the interior ministry , such as the one last week calling on german citizens to remain alert but not to panic , are sometimes vague .
the glass cupola of the german parliament building was recently closed to visitors after media reports of a planned terror attack there , but the government insisted it was all precautionary and would not confirm or deny the media reports .
" even here , there is no transparency , " said pfeiffer .
" it 's not clear if this is really necessary or if this is just a demonstration by the internal security politicians to show they have everything under control . "
risk of violence adding to the stress in a police officer 's life is the growing trend of violence against police .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many police were needed to clear the way to gorleben this has been a subject of debate in german media and the police workers union for some time , but a 2010 study authored by pfeiffer at the criminal research institute has supported these speculations with concrete facts .
the study surveyed over 20,000 police officers in ten german states about violence they encountered on the job in the last five years .
pfeiffer said instances where an officer had to be taken off the job for at least seven days because of injuries sustained due to violence on the job had grown by 60 percent .
" someone who is stressed is less likely to react appropriately in a conflict situation than they normally would , " said pfeiffer .
" the risk - also due to being overworked - of sustaining a serious injury increases for that reason . "
use of bundeswehr troops one solution floated by klaus jansen , head of the association of german criminologists , is to use bundeswehr soldiers in a supporting role with police .
" we have to assume , that the exceptional use of additional police because of the current threat of terrorism will continue well into next year , " jansen said in an interview with the neue osnabruecker zeitung newspaper .
using bundeswehr troops to support normal police presents a legal question - it would require an amendment to the german constitution - but christian pfeiffer thinks there is a better solution .
he says if criminality - not a lack of resources or overburdened police officers - was addressed at a political level and could be reduced , then the current level of police officers in germany would be adequate for them to properly do their job .
pfeiffer thinks bundeswehr troops should - as they have in the past - only be used to support police in emergency situations such as floods .
author : matt zuvela editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warned that some dangers were being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nuclear waste shipment continues to spark determined protests the train shipment of nuclear waste to a storage site in northern germany has sparked massive protests and blockades .
the last stretch is to be completed on tuesday by trucks , but activists have vowed to block the way .
-lrb- 08.11.2010 -rrb- police use water cannons , tear gas on stuttgart train station opponents opponents of stuttgart 's planned train station renovation project have clashed with police in the city 's schlossgarten park , where 25 trees are to be cut down in connection with the project .
-lrb- 30.09.2010 -rrb- feedback should bundeswehr troops be used to support police ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 23.11.2010 us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraeus said his isaf troops have hard work ahead of them general david petraeus , the commander of nato 's isaf troops in afghanistan , has praised the role of the german military on a visit to berlin .
he also reiterated that security duties would be handed over to kabul by 2014 . us general and isaf commander in afghanistan david petraeus tried to couple optimism with realism on his state visit to berlin , reiterating that the alliance 's target was to hand over security responsibilities to afghan forces by 2014 , but also warning against a swift withdrawal from the country .
" it is of enormous importance that afghanistan not became a sanctuary for al qaeda or other extremists again , " petraeus told assembled reporters in a press conference with german defense minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg .
" the goal is to have afghan forces in the lead in security operations by the end of 2014 .
all our efforts will be aimed at helping afghanistan to develop the capacities to take on this mission throughout the country by that time . "
defense minister guttenberg was also cautious in his assessment of progress in afghanistan , as the isaf troops stationed there struggle against a resilient taliban insurgency .
" we 'll need to breathe deeply , " guttenberg said .
" i think the word ' patience ' will accompany us in these matters for some time . "
karzai criticized bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guttenberg had not met petraeus since the general took up the post both petraeus and guttenberg sought to address recent criticisms of new isaf tactics from afghan president hamid karzai .
karzai specifically pointed to the increasing numbers of night raids by troopers , calling their actions inappropriate and not conducive to reconciliation between western soldiers and afghan civilians .
" -lrb- afghan president karzai -rrb- has long expressed concerns about night raids , if they do n't get the individuals they are after , " petraeus said .
" but i was able to show him the statistics that indicate the very high rate of success of those operations . "
relations between karzai 's government in kabul and the west - not least the us - have become somewhat rocky of late , amid a string of critical comments from all sides .
guttenberg suggested that some of the afghan president 's comments that have caused tension among nato members might never have been intended for international consumption .
" i think it does n't do any political harm to tell president hamid karzai from time to time that statements made with the local population in mind may also have a considerable impact abroad , " the german defense minister said .
" this goes particularly for the political debate in those countries which have allied troops in afghanistan .
we talked about that during -lrb- last weekend 's -rrb- nato summit in lisbon , and i think there 's agreement that more caution and sensitivity will be needed in the future , " he added .
bundeswehr praised bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraues said german troops play a ' key role ' for isaf general petraeus , who is in charge of the isaf forces stationed in afghanistan , was on his first trip to meet with defense minister guttenberg since taking on the job in july .
he also thanked the german military , the bundeswehr , for its contribution in the country .
he praised chancellor merkel 's government 's decision to boost german troop levels in afghanistan to 5,000 , saying the bundeswehr was already performing a " central role " in the country , and that the troop increase would further improve germany 's image .
germany is currently the third largest contributor to the isaf mission in terms of troop numbers , behind only the us and the uk .
a total of roughly 130,000 isaf soldiers are serving in afghanistan .
author : hardy graupner -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : is nato withdrawal from afghanistan by 2014 realistic ?
nato confirmed at its summit in lisbon that it wanted to pull out of afghanistan by the end of 2014 , leaving the afghan security forces in control .
but deutsche welle 's ratbil shamel is skeptical about this aim .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nato to withdraw from afghanistan by 2014 nato nations have approved a plan to start pulling out front-line troops in afghanistan early in 2011 .
however , forces will remain in the most dangerous areas until 2014 , and likely stay in a supporting role beyond then .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- expert pleads for delinking of civilian , military operations in afghanistan europeans should argue for decoupling civilian from military operations in afghanistan at the upcoming nato summit , the head of the eu institute of security studies tells deutsche welle .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- feedback is the afghan withdrawal target of 2014 realistic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 23.11.2010 dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : buying kagawa was one of the smartest and cheapest things dortmund have done " money scores goals " - so the old football cliche .
but while some pricey transfers have yet to yield dividends , players acquired for relatively little or nothing at all have been setting german soccer on fire . 350,000 euros is a fair amount of a money - enough , for instance , to purchase a comfortable dwelling in a decent neighborhood in most european cities .
but it 's not sufficient to buy the top-scoring midfielder in a major european football league .
unless , of course , that player is shinji kagawa .
dortmund 's acquisition of the japanese whirlwind for the soccer equivalent of loose change has been one of the stories of the year .
but it 's actually fairly typical both of the dortmund squad overall and a topsy-turvy season in which bargains have outperformed big-name signings .
germany 's sportbild newspaper recently did some math and discovered that the dortmund side currently steamrolling the league cost the club less than one-sixth of what it paid for its 2002 squad , the last time dortmund won the bundesliga .
bildunterschrift : barrios ' value has shot through the roof from back to front , dortmund have been getting excellent returns on modest investments .
even the club 's top striker , lukas barrios , only cost 4.5 million euros -lrb- $ 6.2 million -rrb- in transfer fees , a pittance compared with the sums bayern munich paid for mario gomez -lrb- ca .
35 million euros -rrb- or schalke for klaas-jan huntelaar -lrb- 14 million -rrb- .
kagawa and barrios illustrate the impact that good scouting can have .
discovering new talent may be harder than opening up the purse strings to purchase established players ' services , but it 's a better way to improve a squad .
persistence pays off bildunterschrift : cisse was worth the wait for freiburg if barrios is a bargain , freiburg 's papiss demba cisse is nothing short of sensation .
in 29 games for the small southern german club , the senegalese striker has scored 16 goals .
the 1.5 million euros freiburg paid to acquire him from french club metz in the winter break last year may be the highest transfer sum in club history , but he 's been worth every cent .
by comparison , lukas podolski , who cost cologne 10 million , only has 6 goals in 40 matches .
freiburg were originally rebuffed by metz when they made their first bid for cisse at the start of last season .
but they hung tough in pursuit of the man they wanted , and their patience has been rewarded .
bildunterschrift : ya konan has given hanover reason to smile another steal has been hanover 's didier ya konan who came in at the beginning of last season from rosenborg trondheim for 500,000 euros .
his 12 goals in 31 matches does n't immediately take one 's breath away but consider how impotent hanover 's attack otherwise is .
since his arrival , hanover has n't earned a single point from the ten games in which ya konan has n't been able to play .
the ivorian striker was a key reason why hanover avoided relegation last season and are fourth in the table after thirteen rounds in this one .
the half-a-million hanover shelled out now seems like next to nothing .
but some other valuable contributors have in fact come even cheaper .
fabulous freebies bildunterschrift : in piszczek , dortmund got a good defender for nothing even better than unearthing bargains is finding players whose contracts are expiring and thus can be had free of transfer charges .
one increasingly important member of dortmund 's squad is right back lukasz piszczek , who forced the own goal in the 2-1 win over freiburg on saturday that kept the men in yellow 's winning streak alive .
the polish national got relegated with hertha berlin last season , but dortmund recognized his potential .
and after an initial period of adjustment , he 's established himself in a hard-to-fill position for a title-worthy squad .
another way , of course , to acquire quality is to borrow it .
mainz , of course , have done fantastically well with rising german star lewis holtby this year .
he 's actually under contract to schalke , who must be ruing the decision to send him off for a year of development he obviously does n't need .
the undisputed masters of the rent-a-talent game , though , are nuremberg .
the club , as they 're known , borrowed a quartet of players from bayern and hamburg last year and successfully avoided relegation .
bildunterschrift : schieber , right , has helped nuremberg keep an even keel this year , julian schieber from stuttgart and mehmet ekici from bayern have been key members of a squad that has kept a comfortable distance between themselves and the drop zone .
arguably , borrowing talent does little for a club 's medium-term development .
on the other hand , nuremberg are above schalke and stuttgart in the table , and mainz are better than everyone but dortmund .
so it 's hard to take them to task for temporarily acquiring some good players for free .
author : jefferson chase editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dortmund stay top , raul awakens to lead schalke bundesliga leaders borussia dortmund clinched a 2-1 win over freiburg to keep ahead at the top of the league standings .
the much-criticzed raul , meanwhile , hit a hat trick as schalke demolished bremen 4-0 .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- germany coach loew taps young dortmund talent for sweden friendly the mercurial rise of youthful dortmund in the bundesliga has not gone unnoticed .
for wednesday 's match , germany 's coach has called up a quartet of dortmunders .
some may being staying in the national squad .
-lrb- 16.11.2010 -rrb- dortmund widen first-place bundesliga lead with victory against hamburg after goals from shinji kagawa and lucas barrios , dortmund managed to shut out opponents hamburg in friday 's lone bundesliga football match , keeping the team at the top of the table .
-lrb- 12.11.2010 -rrb- feedback does money score goals ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live bundesliga predictions bumpy progress dw 's soccer pundits are having their bumps felt in an attempt to predict match day 15 results .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
north korea attacks south korean island -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de asia -pipe- 23.11.2010 north korea attacks south korean island großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the shelling set buildings on fire and lasted about an hour north korea has shelled the south korean border island of yeonpyeong , killing two marines and injuring several others , prompting international condemnation .
the north says the south fired on it first . south korean officials and media reports said on tuesday that north korean air force jets fired dozens of shells at the border island , setting buildings ablaze and injuring at least a dozen other people . south korean troops based on the island fired back , and the military was put on top alert , news agencies in the south reported . north korea , meanwhile , said the south had fired first ; seoul acknowledged it was conducting military operations close to the disputed maritime border between the two territories , but said it had been firing west , not north . a senior south korean defense ministry official , lee hong-ki , called the shelling " an intentional attack " and a " clear violation of the armistice " between the two countries . south korean president lee myung-bak said in response that his government was working to prevent the exchange of fire between the north and south .
however , he added that his country would retaliate should the north attack again . a defense ministry spokesman said that a class-a military alert for battle situations had been imposed immediately . major powers condemn the attack un secretary-general ban ki-moon described the attack as " one of the gravest incidents since the end of the korean war " and called for restraint by both sides . in the united states , the white house issued a statement " strongly condemning " the artillery attack and called on north korea " to halt its belligerent action . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german minister said the incident endangered peace german foreign minister guido westerwelle said he was " very worried about this newest development " and appealed for " moderation among the participants . " " this renewed provocation endangers peace in the region , " westerwelle said . japan , china and russia also voiced deep concern over the incident . japanese prime minister naoto kan said he had ordered his cabinet ministers to prepare for any eventuality . russia warned against an escalation of tensions and called the attack " unacceptable . "
in moscow , foreign minister sergei lavrov urged both sides to show restraint to prevent a wider conflict . " there is a colossal danger , which must be avoided , " lavrov warned , adding that " those who started this bear a huge responsibility . " bildunterschrift : yeonpyeong is in a sensitive border area of the yellow sea south korea 's ytn television said air force jets were scrambled , after what appeared to be one of the most serious border incidents since the 1950-53 war .
the two koreas are still technically at war , as that conflict ended only in a truce . local islanders were evacuated to safe areas , and the military and police were checking the number of casualties , ytn reported .
residents were also said to be fleeing the island by fishing boat . unconfirmed eyewitness reports said that fires caused by the shelling were now burning out of control and spreading . south korea 's unification ministry reportedly told ytn that it was considering evacuating its citizens in north korea , who work at the kaesong industrial park and mount kumgang resort . yeonpyeong island lies about three kilometers -lrb- 1.8 miles -rrb- south of the sea border and 120 kilometers west of seoul . the yellow sea border was the scene of deadly naval clashes in 1999 and 2002 , and the north 's alleged involvement in the sinking of a south korean ship there last november damaged already tense ties between the two neighbors . author : gabriel borrud , gregg benzow -lrb- ap , dpa , afp , reuters -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de north korea reportedly fires artillery barrage south korean military officials have said that the north fired 100 shells into waters near the disputed inter-korean sea border .
the incident comes after a south korea accused the north of detaining a fishing boat .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- south korean-us simulation attack drills anger pyongyang north korea has once again criticized joint military exercises conducted by the us and south korea .
the drills come as tension on the korean peninsula is high and speculation about the leadership in pyongyang is rife .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- us announces fresh sanctions against n. korea the us has announced new sanctions against north korea .
the measures are to target pyongyang 's weapons ' proliferation and the import of luxury goods .
-lrb- 21.07.2010 -rrb- north korea proliferation report raises international , regional stakes a leaked un document revealed to reporters in new york recently accuses north korea of defying existing sanctions on arms control and nuclear proliferation by exporting technology to iran , syria and burma .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic north korea shells south korea -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- feedback why do you think north korea is taking such provocative actions ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
violence in nigeria nigeria has been rocked once again by ethnic clashes between christians and muslims .
watch the video the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german jewish leader receives major honor -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 23.11.2010 german jewish leader receives major honor großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : knobloch survived the holocaust as a child in germany the outgoing president of germany 's central council of jews in germany , charlotte knobloch , has been awarded the large federal cross of merit with star , one of the highest honors available in germany . german president christian wulff gave one of the highest orders of merit available to the country 's jewish leader on tuesday , praising charlotte knobloch and her term of over four years at the head of the central council of jews in germany .
" we are honoring a woman of whom our entire country can be proud , and who is therefore receiving one of this country 's particularly high honors - along with our gratitude and admiration , " the german president said at the ceremony in berlin .
knobloch , 78 , survived the nazi era as a child , hiding with a sympathetic german family .
she has held several leading positions in the german jewish community since the 1980s , and took over from paul spiegel as the president of the central council for jews in 2006 .
" it 's thanks to people like charlotte knobloch , that there is such a thing as reconciliation ; that we were able to set off on a path towards a new collective life , a new normality .
we will continue along that path . "
knobloch has been awarded the large federal cross of merit with star , one of the highest orders available to civilians in germany .
" last eyewitness to leave " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wulff said all of germany could be proud of knobloch 's achievements knobloch will not stand for reelection when the central council for jews votes on a new president on november , 28 ; former vice president dieter graumann is considered her likely replacement .
graumann , born in israel in 1950 , would be the first post-war german jewish leader not to have lived through the holocaust .
" with the departure of charlotte knobloch , the last eyewitness will be leaving the presidential office at the central council for jews .
that is certainly a break with history in german jewish culture , " president wulff said in his speech honoring knobloch .
" but this change will not mean that anything is forgotten .
we all well know the obligations we have , not just to the victims of the past , but also to our future offspring . "
knobloch also discussed this prospect in a recent interview with the mannheimer morgen newspaper , but agreed that there was no danger of the holocaust being forgotten in germany .
" the next generation has still grown up with the history of the holocaust , even if we -lrb- german society -rrb- did n't really talk about it for decades , " knobloch said .
" nowadays , jews are accepted in the mainstream of german society , something that for decades was not the case . "
one of the issues on which knobloch concentrated during her term in office was the integration of jewish immigrants from the former soviet union , a fast-growing group with increasing influence in germany 's jewish community .
wulff told knobloch in the ceremony that the large federal cross of merit with star symbolized germany 's enduring gratitude for - and commitment to - her life 's work .
author : mark hallam -lrb- apn , dpa -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de being honored by the fatherland : germany 's federal cross of merit where the uk has its knighthood , and france its legion of honour , germany rewards its loyal citizens with the federal cross of merit .
its most famous recent recipient was the national soccer team coach joachim loew .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- central council for jews in germany celebrates 60 successful years the central council for jews in germany was founded on july 19 , 1950 .
since then it has built up a jewish community of over 100,000 in germany and has been a leading moral voice when it comes to the country 's nazi past .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- german jews ordain first female rabbi since world war ii for the first time since 1935 , germany 's jewish community has ordained a female rabbi .
alina treiger , 31 , will have the same rights and responsibilities as her male colleagues .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- feedback could germany 's central council for jews change when headed by someone who did n't live through the holocaust ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live hin & weg we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think google street view is intrusive ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
terror suspects arrested in belgium , netherlands and germany -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 23.11.2010 terror suspects arrested in belgium , netherlands and germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dozens were arrested police in belgium , the netherlands and germany have arrested at least 10 islamists suspected of plotting an attack in belgium .
another 15 were arrested for allegedly recruiting insurgents for iraq and afghanistan . police in belgium and neighboring countries carried out two separate anti-terror raids on tuesday , arresting at least 25 people .
federal prosecutors in belgium first announced the arrests of at least 10 islamists suspected of plotting an attack on an unknown target in belgium .
" ten belgian , dutch , moroccan and russian nationals have been arrested , " a spokesman for the belgian prosecutor 's office said on tuesday .
the russian nationals were of chechen origin , he said .
one of those russians has been detained in the western german city of aachen , close to the dutch border .
the others were arrested in belgium 's second city antwerp and in the dutch capital amsterdam .
extremist websites under scrutiny the group used the extremist website ansar al mujahideen , according to the prosecutors .
the target has not been determined yet .
" there 's also a website called sharia for belgium , which is dedicated to people who have motive to launch some kind of attack on belgium specifically , " deutsche welle 's brussels correspondent vanessa mock said . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : security measures have been stepped up across germany " but at the moment we do n't know exactly how those websites feed into those groups , " she added .
the arrests followed a months-long investigation initiated by the belgian authorities in late 2009 in cooperation with its european neighbors and the eu 's judicial cooperation unit eurojust .
the target of the attack is not known , but " they believe it might have been on antwerp , seeing as the bulk of the arrests were made there .
it has n't been confirmed , but that 's where the houses were raided , " mock said .
at least 15 arrested in later raids later on tuesday evening , belgian prosecutors announced at least 15 further arrests , made as part of an unrelated set of property searches in brussels .
this second probe was investigating an iraq and afghanistan war recruitment drive , and a spokeswoman for the prosecutor 's office said that " about 15 people " were detained .
belgian authorities said the raids were the culmination of a three year investigation into a belgian islamic center , conducted with the cooperation of foreign police services .
some of the people arrested are suspected members of a group that has been trying to recruit people to go and fight for the afghan and iraqi insurgencies .
no connection to german terror alert but germany 's interior ministry said on tuesday that the belgian arrests had nothing to do with the current situation in germany , where security measures have been stepped up because of intelligence suggesting a terror attack may be on the cards .
even the first set of arrests , one of which was made in germany , was not thought to be connected to the terror warnings from berlin .
" these are measures taken by the belgian authorities , based on evidence suggesting that young belgians are being recruited for the islamist separatist fight in chechnya , " stefan paris , spokesman for the german interior ministry said on tuesday .
the dutch authorities also said that tuesday 's arrests were not connected to the situation in germany .
author : nicole goebel , mark hallam -lrb- dpa , afp , reuters -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warned that some dangers were being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- german interior ministers acknowledge terror threat , call for calm germany 's interior ministers have called on citizens to continue living their lives as before , in the face of recent terror threats .
on the same day , in namibia , a suspected bomb was found on a plane headed for munich .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- germany steps up security on news of planned terror attack germany announces stepped up security in light of information that terrorists may be planning an attack in the country for late november .
security is to be increased at all airports and train stations .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic at least ten suspects arrested in belgian terror plot .
feedback are you worried about possible terror attacks ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
death sentence puts pakistan 's blasphemy law in the spotlight -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 23.11.2010 death sentence puts pakistan 's blasphemy law in the spotlight großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : asia bibi 's family members are hoping for a presidential pardon pakistan 's opinion makers are engaged in a heated debate about the country 's blasphemy law after a 45-year-old christian woman was sentenced to death . pakistan 's blasphemy law has once again become a topic of heated discussion after the recent handing down of the death sentence to asia bibi .
the 45-year-old christian woman was arrested in june last year after her neighbors complained that she had made derogatory remarks about prophet mohammed .
blasphemy and lynch justice when it comes to blasphemy in the islamic republic of pakistan , the law is clear - it is a crime punishable by death to speak ill of islam and prophet mohammed .
although hundreds have been convicted of blasphemy , nobody in pakistan has ever been executed for the offence .
most convictions are retracted after the accused makes an appeal .
however , angry mobs have killed people accused of blasphemy .
in july this year , two christian brothers were gunned down in faisalabad after being accused of writing a sacrilegious letter against the prophet .
fareed ahmad pracha from the muslim movement jamaat i islami is an ardent defender of the blasphemy law .
" we have false murder cases in our country , false witnesses and it is possible that a case may be wrong , " he said . "
" we just want to say that the law should be enforced properly , there should not be any change made into the blasphemy law , we will not tolerate or accept this .
if you make way even for a single change in the law , then there will be a number of changes , whereas there has never been a case where anyone has been punished . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : there have been demonstrations for asia bibi all over the world , including in pakistan call for repeal of the law asia bibi ’ s sentencing to death has triggered an outcry among human rights groups and the international community .
some pakistani politicians have also called on the president to pardon asia bibi .
bibi herself has said that she was involved in a dispute after some women laborers she was in the fields with said they would not drink water from the same bowl because she was not a muslim .
she says they slapped her and pulled her hair .
they apparently later went to the police and accused her of making derogatory remarks about prophet mohammed .
sisal chaudhary , a local christian leader in pakistan , is angry about discrimination against the christian minority in pakistan .
" many innocent people have been killed , " he pointed out .
" people who did not even have a case registered against them .
how can you stop this ?
there is only one solution to this and that is for this law to be completely repealed .
many people have suffered , many settlements have been razed down because of this law , many people have spent 10 or 12 years in prison .
it is wrong to say that no one has been really killed because of this law .
now they want to start hanging people but they have been killing people for a long time . "
shahbaz bhatti , pakistan 's minister for minority affairs , has now been commissioned by president asif ali zardari to look into the case .
a christian himself , he has said it was a personal dispute and asia bibi did not commit blasphemy .
he is due to submit the findings of his report on wednesday .
author : manasi golapakrishnan editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- irish blasphemy law triggers protests blasphemy is now a crime in ireland punishable by a fine .
atheists and the osce have called on dublin to repeal the law as quickly as possible , but some countries , such as pakistan , think it is worth copying .
-lrb- 14.01.2010 -rrb- german-iranian author receives culture prize after religious row after a lot of controversy , the hessian culture prize 2009 has been presented .
one of the winners , navid kermani , received an official apology for being temporarily denied the award .
-lrb- 27.11.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . january asia quiz quiz of the month thailand the government has revoked the state of emergency in parts of southern thailand .
dw correspondent ron corben talks about bangkok 's policies in the deep south asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 31.12.10 china flexes its muscles in 2010 affirmative action in afghanistan asian english writers in 2010 podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 23.11.2010 portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portugal is seen as a future candidate for help portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next . portuguese prime minister jose socrates said on monday that his country 's economy remained robust and that there was no need for lisbon to ask for a financial rescue package .
the comments came after ireland conceded in agreeing to apply for a financial bailout program from the european union and international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portuguese prime minister socrates welcomed the irish acceptance of help portugal is high on the list of possible future rescue package recipients .
however , socrates said that his country 's financial system was performing well and said that its level of public debt - expected to be 7.3 percent for 2010 - was in line with the eu average .
" there are no links between portugal and ireland , " said socrates .
" i 've heard a lot of talk of the imf .
the country does not have any need for aid . "
the prime minister said he hoped that the irish acceptance of a financial package , which follows that of greece earlier in the year , would reassure nervous lending markets .
" i hope that the fact that ireland has asked for european union funds will permit the situation on the markets to return to normal , because portugal is feeling the effects of contagion very much , " said socrates .
lisbon keen to stay in driving seat like the irish administration , which had been reluctant to seek assistance , portugal 's socialist government is keen to avoid the need for outside help and any resulting loss of sovereignty .
such a course of action could prove unpopular with the electorate , with many older voters remembering traumatic interventions by the imf in the 1970s and 1980s .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish rescue deal follows a bailout for greece earlier this year this led to public spending being slashed at a time when the welfare system was too insufficient to provide proper protection for those affected .
however , some believe that both the imf 's approach and the situation of a more developed portugal in 2010 mean that a bailout is not so unthinkable .
" i think the mood against the imf is changing slightly , " economist pedro lains told deutsche welle .
" you see people who are responsible - officials and those connected to the opposition social democratic party - now they are changing their discourse slightly : they 're saying it is not a drama , that if it comes maybe it 's necessary . "
the center-right social democrat opposition has said it will not vote against the state budget for 2011 .
included in the budget are plans to cut public sector salaries and narrow the deficit to 4.6 percent of gdp .
away from parliament , a general strike was planned for wednesday - the first in two decades to be called by both of portugal 's two main trade union federations .
spain also claims to be different in neighboring spain , another country viewed as likely to need help , prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero said there were differences with the irish situation .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland 's prime minister is facing elections after the budget is approved zapatero 's socialist party 's organizational secretary , marcelino iglesias , quoted the premier as saying that bank stress tests during the summer - to assess the preparedness of banks for another financial crisis - had shown that the spanish financial sector was strong .
dublin 's economic woes stem in large part from the necessity to provide its own multi-billion euro financial aid plan to the troubled anglo-irish bank .
a spokesman for the eu 's economics commissioner also ruled out the risk of ireland 's problems precipitating a domino effect .
" there are no analogies to be made ; the irish case is very specific , " spokesman amadeu altafaj told reporters in brussels .
" the decisions concerning ireland are also meant to stop any possible tension and contagion to other economies , " he added .
the dublin rescue package - which could amount to as much as 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- - was agreed on sunday .
author : alison roberts , richard connor -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- portuguese government seals deal on austerity budget portugal 's minority socialist government has reached a deal with the country 's center-right opposition to introduce an austerity budget .
the agreement is seen as crucial step in averting political and financial chaos .
-lrb- 31.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic portugal could be the next candidate for financial aid -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- feedback are more countries likely to need help to reassure markets ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
senior policeman charged over germany-bound hoax bomb -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 23.11.2010 senior policeman charged over germany-bound hoax bomb großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police in germany are on high alert for terrorism a senior namibian police officer has been charged with the planting of a fake bomb amid luggage bound for germany .
berlin denies involvement in a security operation , reports say . a high-ranking airport police officer was charged on monday over the planting of a fake bomb in luggage on its way from namibia to germany .
the 51-year-old man was charged at a magistrates ' court in the namibian capital of windhoek with breaking airport and explosive laws .
namibian police said the man had worked for airport security for at least five years , and that there was no apparent motive for the planting of the fake device .
german news agency dpa said that berlin 's ambassador in windhoek , egon kochanke , had denied reports that a security exercise at the airport involving germany had played a role in the incident .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fake device was found in a screening area at the airport " there was no such thing as a german security exercise with a dummy luggage bomb , " kochanke said .
claims of german involvement in exercise a namibian newspaper had earlier reported that an unnamed cabinet member from the country had complained that germany 's involvement had been " reckless and irresponsible . "
the claim that german authorities were involved had also been denied by the namibian government .
the device was found in a luggage screening area at windhoek 's hosea kutako airport and led to the delay of an air berlin flight to munich . an x-ray investigation had revealed a detonator wired to batteries was present , along with a clock - but no explosive material was found .
germany is currently on alert , with warnings of heightened terrorism threats .
public access to the reichstag , germany 's parliament building , was restricted on monday after weekend reports that islamist militants had plans to attack the berlin landmark .
author : richard connor -lrb- dpa , ap -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de does germany need color-coded security ?
experts disagree on the merits of terror alert levels as germany steps up security over concerns of a possible islamist attack .
the country does not have a warning system like those in the uk and the us .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warn that some dangers are being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- suspect package in namibia was a ' dummy , ' says interior minister the suspicious package found at a namibian airport en route to munich was a " dummy , " according to the german interior minister thomas de maiziere .
investigations have begun to find out who bought and planted the case .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- feedback is the threat of terrorism being exaggerated at present ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german widower goes to court over assisted suicide -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 23.11.2010 german widower goes to court over assisted suicide großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : euthanasia is a sensitive issue in germany due to the nazi era a 67-year-old widower has sued germany in the european court of human rights to overturn a ban on active assisted suicide .
the man took his paraplegic wife to switzerland because she wanted to end her life . the european court of human rights in strasbourg began hearing the case of ulrich koch vs. germany on tuesday .
a court brief said the case concerned the german authorities ' refusal to grant his late wife authorization to acquire a lethal dose of medication enabling her to commit voluntary , assisted suicide .
after falling in front of her house in 2002 , koch 's wife was paralyzed from the neck down and required artificial ventilation and constant care from nursing staff .
koch said his wife thereafter " suffered from terrible spasms " and even had trouble " sitting in a wheelchair . "
because she was paralyzed , she appealed for active help to end her life .
in november , 2004 , she made a request to germany 's federal institute for drugs and medical devices to grant her authorization to obtain the medication necessary to commit suicide , but the institute refused , arguing that her wish contravened the german narcotics act . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the european court could force germany to change the law couple forced to go abroad the couple appealed the decision , and in the meantime went ahead with their own plans to let the woman die outside of germany .
on february 12 , 2005 , she committed suicide in switzerland , assisted by the organization , dignitas , which helps people seeking a dignified way to die .
koch 's posthumous legal challenge in germany on behalf of his wife was dismissed by two courts , including the federal constitutional court in november 2008 .
later , in 2010 , another german court did rule that " passive " assisted suicide was legal .
this essentially means that in germany voluntary starvation or dying of thirst on your own is legal , but any active assistance from others is not .
the european court of human rights must now decide whether the german law banning " active " assisted suicide infringes on a person 's right to privacy and a dignified death , as stipulated by article 8 of the german constitution .
if the court rules in the plaintiff 's favor , it could have far-reaching consequences for the growing tide of support across europe for assisted suicides .
author : gregg benzow editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german court rules in favor of passive assisted suicide germany 's federal court of justice has ruled that assisted suicide is legal in certain cases .
the ruling is based on a case involving a terminally-ill coma patient whose daughter attempted to cut her feeding tube .
-lrb- 25.06.2010 -rrb- dutch groups want to expand assisted suicide rights assisted suicide is tolerated in the netherlands , under certain conditions .
but right-to-die advocates in the country think the law should be expanded to cover healthy elderly people who consider their lives " complete . " -lrb- 28.05.2010 -rrb- switzerland considers limiting euthanasia to stop ' suicide tourism ' the swiss government has unveiled proposals to tighten the country 's laws on assisted suicide in an effort to limit what has become known as " suicide tourism . "
the country remains deeply divided over the issue .
-lrb- 30.10.2009 -rrb- feedback do you approve or disapprove of assisted suicide , and why ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live typisch deutsch we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread -pipe- protecting biodiversity in suriname -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.12.2010 home europe turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia bio-coal in india biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power hydropower biodiversity -pipe- 23.11.2010 threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : leatherback turtles have existed for millions of years the earth is home to some 20 million species , and many more that scientists believe have never been identified .
they say species extinctions are on the rise , with repercussions for mankind . the leatherback turtle lives on the coast of suriname .
weighing up to 700 kilos -lrb- 1,540 pounds -rrb- and as long as 2.5 meters -lrb- 8 feet -rrb- , it 's the world 's largest sea turtle .
but sheer size is n't enough to prevent it from dying out .
its reproductive patterns are highly sensitive to rising temperatures : sands in many areas are today so scorching that eggs can not survive , and moreover , sand temperatures determine the sex ratio of turtle eggs .
if the sand in which they lay their eggs gets too hot , more female turtles are produced – which destroys the natural gender balance and endangers breeding success over the long term .
a further problem is loss of nesting and feeding habitats due to rising sea-levels .
taken together , all this means their numbers are declining dramatically and they have been added to the international union for conservation of nature -lrb- iucn -rrb- " red list " of threatened species .
according to experts , if no action is taken to protect leatherbacks , these reptiles , which have existed for over 65 million years , will disappear in our lifetime .
climate change and biodiversity bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : clownfish are losing their sense of smell the united nations declared 2010 to be the international year of biodiversity , with research showing that , via global warming , man is responsible for the greatest extinction of wildlife since the demise of the dinosaurs .
one-fifth of the world 's vertebrates face extinction , according to the latest figures released by the iucn .
in fact , the role played by global warming is a matter of keen debate .
many scientists believe that other factors contribute , such as poaching , and the fact that the consequences of climate change are intensified by pollution .
climate change is also having severe impacts on migratory species .
that is also likely to be increasingly disruptive , experts say .
" these days , you come across species in places where they 've never been before , " said wendy foden , of the species program run by the iucn in london .
" some species are migrating to colder regions , and in south america , that means further south and higher altitudes . "
marine life is equally affected but the animals have fewer migratory options .
increased co2 levels in the atmosphere are changing ocean ph levels , a process which alters many species ' habitat .
what it means for mankind helen foden cites the example of the clownfish .
“ when the water is more acidic than usual , clownfish start to lose their sense of smell , " she said .
like many reef and coastal fish , clownfish are swept off their home reefs into the open ocean as babies , and use their acute senses of smell to find their way back .
the tiny larvae of many coastal fish rely on scent cues in the water to help locate adult habitat .
iucn experts now hope to use the popularity of the clownfish to raise awareness of how climate change is impacting ecosystems .
" thanks to the movie ‘ finding nemo , ' everyone is familiar with clownfish , " said foden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the tiny noblella pygmaea mini frog was only discovered in 2009 species extinction has an immediate effect on mankind .
according to a recent survey carried out in germany , two-thirds of those questioned said that they would be personally affected by biodiversity loss , but mainly in terms of their leisure-time activities .
in fact , the repercussions will be significantly further-reaching .
the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity -lrb- teeb -rrb- study is a major international initiative set up to draw attention to the global economic benefits of biodiversity and to highlight the growing costs of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation . it puts the worldwide economic value of the pollination service provided by insect pollinators , for example , at some € 153 billion -lrb- $ 210 billion -rrb- – proof that species ' extinction is about far more than leisure activities .
however , the teeb study has been unable to give a precise figure to the cost of loss of biodiversity , simply because many species have never been identified . unknown species bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south america is believed to be home to the world 's greatest biodiversity some 1.9 million species are officially catalogued , but this is believed to be just a small percentage of the species that actually exist .
researchers estimate that about 100 species die out every year , and since their function in the ecosystem is not necessarily known , scientists are not in a position to identify the consequences of their extinction .
gudrun mernitz is co-founder of the resource center for marine organisms .
she and her team have isolated several hundred substances out of marine micro-organisms , which are now being examined as potential components in pharmaceuticals . " several might be active against types of cancer , " said mernitz .
in the past 10 years , some 6 percent of medicines developed were derived from natural substances , says rolf hoemke from the association of research-based pharmaceuticals companies .
" it might be anything , even the intestines of a bug , " he said .
the pharmaceutical potential of biodiversity should not underestimated .
researchers from conservation international take regular field trips to document biodiversity and to locate where the establishment of conservation areas would be most constructive .
the idea is that by protecting animal and plant species from pollution and poaching , they may adjust over time to climate change .
author : marion huetter -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de extinction threatens over one fifth of world 's plants the world 's plants are facing an extinction rate on a par with mammals .
one in five plant species is at threat of dying out , says a new study released ahead of the un 's biodiversity summit in japan in october .
-lrb- 29.09.2010 -rrb- russia convenes leaders ' summit to save tigers from extinction the fate of the world 's 3,500 wild tigers is the theme at a conference in russia this week .
leaders from the 13 nations with wild tigers are meeting amid claims that the animals could be extinct within a dozen years .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think should be done to preserve biodiversity ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 main page english deutsch español 中文 عربي dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv .
global 3000 13.12.2010 edition as video on demand radio listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 16.12.10 -rrb- get connected global ideas : stay up to date facebook twitter videos on youtube podcast via rss-feed podcast via itunes our planet dw 's in depth reporting on environement and development issues .
click here © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 23.11.2010 dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : buying kagawa was one of the smartest and cheapest things dortmund have done " money scores goals " - so the old football cliche .
but while some pricey transfers have yet to yield dividends , players acquired for relatively little or nothing at all have been setting german soccer on fire . 350,000 euros is a fair amount of a money - enough , for instance , to purchase a comfortable dwelling in a decent neighborhood in most european cities .
but it 's not sufficient to buy the top-scoring midfielder in a major european football league .
unless , of course , that player is shinji kagawa .
dortmund 's acquisition of the japanese whirlwind for the soccer equivalent of loose change has been one of the stories of the year .
but it 's actually fairly typical both of the dortmund squad overall and a topsy-turvy season in which bargains have outperformed big-name signings .
germany 's sportbild newspaper recently did some math and discovered that the dortmund side currently steamrolling the league cost the club less than one-sixth of what it paid for its 2002 squad , the last time dortmund won the bundesliga .
bildunterschrift : barrios ' value has shot through the roof from back to front , dortmund have been getting excellent returns on modest investments .
even the club 's top striker , lukas barrios , only cost 4.5 million euros -lrb- $ 6.2 million -rrb- in transfer fees , a pittance compared with the sums bayern munich paid for mario gomez -lrb- ca .
35 million euros -rrb- or schalke for klaas-jan huntelaar -lrb- 14 million -rrb- .
kagawa and barrios illustrate the impact that good scouting can have .
discovering new talent may be harder than opening up the purse strings to purchase established players ' services , but it 's a better way to improve a squad .
persistence pays off bildunterschrift : cisse was worth the wait for freiburg if barrios is a bargain , freiburg 's papiss demba cisse is nothing short of sensation .
in 29 games for the small southern german club , the senegalese striker has scored 16 goals .
the 1.5 million euros freiburg paid to acquire him from french club metz in the winter break last year may be the highest transfer sum in club history , but he 's been worth every cent .
by comparison , lukas podolski , who cost cologne 10 million , only has 6 goals in 40 matches .
freiburg were originally rebuffed by metz when they made their first bid for cisse at the start of last season .
but they hung tough in pursuit of the man they wanted , and their patience has been rewarded .
bildunterschrift : ya konan has given hanover reason to smile another steal has been hanover 's didier ya konan who came in at the beginning of last season from rosenborg trondheim for 500,000 euros .
his 12 goals in 31 matches does n't immediately take one 's breath away but consider how impotent hanover 's attack otherwise is .
since his arrival , hanover has n't earned a single point from the ten games in which ya konan has n't been able to play .
the ivorian striker was a key reason why hanover avoided relegation last season and are fourth in the table after thirteen rounds in this one .
the half-a-million hanover shelled out now seems like next to nothing .
but some other valuable contributors have in fact come even cheaper .
fabulous freebies bildunterschrift : in piszczek , dortmund got a good defender for nothing even better than unearthing bargains is finding players whose contracts are expiring and thus can be had free of transfer charges .
one increasingly important member of dortmund 's squad is right back lukasz piszczek , who forced the own goal in the 2-1 win over freiburg on saturday that kept the men in yellow 's winning streak alive .
the polish national got relegated with hertha berlin last season , but dortmund recognized his potential .
and after an initial period of adjustment , he 's established himself in a hard-to-fill position for a title-worthy squad .
another way , of course , to acquire quality is to borrow it .
mainz , of course , have done fantastically well with rising german star lewis holtby this year .
he 's actually under contract to schalke , who must be ruing the decision to send him off for a year of development he obviously does n't need .
the undisputed masters of the rent-a-talent game , though , are nuremberg .
the club , as they 're known , borrowed a quartet of players from bayern and hamburg last year and successfully avoided relegation .
bildunterschrift : schieber , right , has helped nuremberg keep an even keel this year , julian schieber from stuttgart and mehmet ekici from bayern have been key members of a squad that has kept a comfortable distance between themselves and the drop zone .
arguably , borrowing talent does little for a club 's medium-term development .
on the other hand , nuremberg are above schalke and stuttgart in the table , and mainz are better than everyone but dortmund .
so it 's hard to take them to task for temporarily acquiring some good players for free .
author : jefferson chase editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dortmund stay top , raul awakens to lead schalke bundesliga leaders borussia dortmund clinched a 2-1 win over freiburg to keep ahead at the top of the league standings .
the much-criticzed raul , meanwhile , hit a hat trick as schalke demolished bremen 4-0 .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- germany coach loew taps young dortmund talent for sweden friendly the mercurial rise of youthful dortmund in the bundesliga has not gone unnoticed .
for wednesday 's match , germany 's coach has called up a quartet of dortmunders .
some may being staying in the national squad .
-lrb- 16.11.2010 -rrb- dortmund widen first-place bundesliga lead with victory against hamburg after goals from shinji kagawa and lucas barrios , dortmund managed to shut out opponents hamburg in friday 's lone bundesliga football match , keeping the team at the top of the table .
-lrb- 12.11.2010 -rrb- 9800 dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread -pipe- protecting biodiversity in suriname -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.06.2011 home europe permafrost in russia boreal forests in russia making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia green industry park in india flood prevention in bangladesh hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa renewable energy on the cape verde islands dry forests in zambia agricultural insurance in ghana climate champions in uganda green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america energy-efficient wine production in chile solar roofs in brazil natural paradise in costa rica renewable energy in the caribbean micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features biomass geothermal wind power solar power hydropower biodiversity -pipe- 23.11.2010 threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : leatherback turtles have existed for millions of years the earth is home to some 20 million species , and many more that scientists believe have never been identified .
they say species extinctions are on the rise , with repercussions for mankind . the leatherback turtle lives on the coast of suriname .
weighing up to 700 kilos -lrb- 1,540 pounds -rrb- and as long as 2.5 meters -lrb- 8 feet -rrb- , it 's the world 's largest sea turtle .
but sheer size is n't enough to prevent it from dying out .
its reproductive patterns are highly sensitive to rising temperatures : sands in many areas are today so scorching that eggs can not survive , and moreover , sand temperatures determine the sex ratio of turtle eggs .
if the sand in which they lay their eggs gets too hot , more female turtles are produced – which destroys the natural gender balance and endangers breeding success over the long term .
a further problem is loss of nesting and feeding habitats due to rising sea-levels .
taken together , all this means their numbers are declining dramatically and they have been added to the international union for conservation of nature -lrb- iucn -rrb- " red list " of threatened species .
according to experts , if no action is taken to protect leatherbacks , these reptiles , which have existed for over 65 million years , will disappear in our lifetime .
climate change and biodiversity bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : clownfish are losing their sense of smell the united nations declared 2010 to be the international year of biodiversity , with research showing that , via global warming , man is responsible for the greatest extinction of wildlife since the demise of the dinosaurs .
one-fifth of the world 's vertebrates face extinction , according to the latest figures released by the iucn .
in fact , the role played by global warming is a matter of keen debate .
many scientists believe that other factors contribute , such as poaching , and the fact that the consequences of climate change are intensified by pollution .
climate change is also having severe impacts on migratory species .
that is also likely to be increasingly disruptive , experts say .
" these days , you come across species in places where they 've never been before , " said wendy foden , of the species program run by the iucn in london .
" some species are migrating to colder regions , and in south america , that means further south and higher altitudes . "
marine life is equally affected but the animals have fewer migratory options .
increased co2 levels in the atmosphere are changing ocean ph levels , a process which alters many species ' habitat .
what it means for mankind helen foden cites the example of the clownfish .
“ when the water is more acidic than usual , clownfish start to lose their sense of smell , " she said .
like many reef and coastal fish , clownfish are swept off their home reefs into the open ocean as babies , and use their acute senses of smell to find their way back .
the tiny larvae of many coastal fish rely on scent cues in the water to help locate adult habitat .
iucn experts now hope to use the popularity of the clownfish to raise awareness of how climate change is impacting ecosystems .
" thanks to the movie ‘ finding nemo , ' everyone is familiar with clownfish , " said foden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the tiny noblella pygmaea mini frog was only discovered in 2009 species extinction has an immediate effect on mankind .
according to a recent survey carried out in germany , two-thirds of those questioned said that they would be personally affected by biodiversity loss , but mainly in terms of their leisure-time activities .
in fact , the repercussions will be significantly further-reaching .
the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity -lrb- teeb -rrb- study is a major international initiative set up to draw attention to the global economic benefits of biodiversity and to highlight the growing costs of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation . it puts the worldwide economic value of the pollination service provided by insect pollinators , for example , at some € 153 billion -lrb- $ 210 billion -rrb- – proof that species ' extinction is about far more than leisure activities .
however , the teeb study has been unable to give a precise figure to the cost of loss of biodiversity , simply because many species have never been identified . unknown species bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south america is believed to be home to the world 's greatest biodiversity some 1.9 million species are officially catalogued , but this is believed to be just a small percentage of the species that actually exist .
researchers estimate that about 100 species die out every year , and since their function in the ecosystem is not necessarily known , scientists are not in a position to identify the consequences of their extinction .
gudrun mernitz is co-founder of the resource center for marine organisms .
she and her team have isolated several hundred substances out of marine micro-organisms , which are now being examined as potential components in pharmaceuticals . " several might be active against types of cancer , " said mernitz .
in the past 10 years , some 6 percent of medicines developed were derived from natural substances , says rolf hoemke from the association of research-based pharmaceuticals companies .
" it might be anything , even the intestines of a bug , " he said .
the pharmaceutical potential of biodiversity should not underestimated .
researchers from conservation international take regular field trips to document biodiversity and to locate where the establishment of conservation areas would be most constructive .
the idea is that by protecting animal and plant species from pollution and poaching , they may adjust over time to climate change .
author : marion huetter -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de extinction threatens over one fifth of world 's plants the world 's plants are facing an extinction rate on a par with mammals .
one in five plant species is at threat of dying out , says a new study released ahead of the un 's biodiversity summit in japan in october .
-lrb- 29.09.2010 -rrb- russia convenes leaders ' summit to save tigers from extinction the fate of the world 's 3,500 wild tigers is the theme at a conference in russia this week .
leaders from the 13 nations with wild tigers are meeting amid claims that the animals could be extinct within a dozen years .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- 9800 main page english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv .
global 3000 20.06.2011 edition as video on demand radio listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 23.06.11 -rrb- the living planet page get connected global ideas : stay up to date facebook twitter videos on youtube podcast via rss-feed podcast via itunes our planet dw 's in depth reporting on environement and development issues .
click here © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread -pipe- protecting biodiversity in suriname -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home europe making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power hydropower biodiversity -pipe- 23.11.2010 threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : leatherback turtles have existed for millions of years the earth is home to some 20 million species , and many more that scientists believe have never been identified .
they say species extinctions are on the rise , with repercussions for mankind . the leatherback turtle lives on the coast of suriname .
weighing up to 700 kilos -lrb- 1,540 pounds -rrb- and as long as 2.5 meters -lrb- 8 feet -rrb- , it 's the world 's largest sea turtle .
but sheer size is n't enough to prevent it from dying out .
its reproductive patterns are highly sensitive to rising temperatures : sands in many areas are today so scorching that eggs can not survive , and moreover , sand temperatures determine the sex ratio of turtle eggs .
if the sand in which they lay their eggs gets too hot , more female turtles are produced – which destroys the natural gender balance and endangers breeding success over the long term .
a further problem is loss of nesting and feeding habitats due to rising sea-levels .
taken together , all this means their numbers are declining dramatically and they have been added to the international union for conservation of nature -lrb- iucn -rrb- " red list " of threatened species .
according to experts , if no action is taken to protect leatherbacks , these reptiles , which have existed for over 65 million years , will disappear in our lifetime .
climate change and biodiversity bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : clownfish are losing their sense of smell the united nations declared 2010 to be the international year of biodiversity , with research showing that , via global warming , man is responsible for the greatest extinction of wildlife since the demise of the dinosaurs .
one-fifth of the world 's vertebrates face extinction , according to the latest figures released by the iucn .
in fact , the role played by global warming is a matter of keen debate .
many scientists believe that other factors contribute , such as poaching , and the fact that the consequences of climate change are intensified by pollution .
climate change is also having severe impacts on migratory species .
that is also likely to be increasingly disruptive , experts say .
" these days , you come across species in places where they 've never been before , " said wendy foden , of the species program run by the iucn in london .
" some species are migrating to colder regions , and in south america , that means further south and higher altitudes . "
marine life is equally affected but the animals have fewer migratory options .
increased co2 levels in the atmosphere are changing ocean ph levels , a process which alters many species ' habitat .
what it means for mankind helen foden cites the example of the clownfish .
“ when the water is more acidic than usual , clownfish start to lose their sense of smell , " she said .
like many reef and coastal fish , clownfish are swept off their home reefs into the open ocean as babies , and use their acute senses of smell to find their way back .
the tiny larvae of many coastal fish rely on scent cues in the water to help locate adult habitat .
iucn experts now hope to use the popularity of the clownfish to raise awareness of how climate change is impacting ecosystems .
" thanks to the movie ‘ finding nemo , ' everyone is familiar with clownfish , " said foden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the tiny noblella pygmaea mini frog was only discovered in 2009 species extinction has an immediate effect on mankind .
according to a recent survey carried out in germany , two-thirds of those questioned said that they would be personally affected by biodiversity loss , but mainly in terms of their leisure-time activities .
in fact , the repercussions will be significantly further-reaching .
the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity -lrb- teeb -rrb- study is a major international initiative set up to draw attention to the global economic benefits of biodiversity and to highlight the growing costs of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation . it puts the worldwide economic value of the pollination service provided by insect pollinators , for example , at some € 153 billion -lrb- $ 210 billion -rrb- – proof that species ' extinction is about far more than leisure activities .
however , the teeb study has been unable to give a precise figure to the cost of loss of biodiversity , simply because many species have never been identified . unknown species bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south america is believed to be home to the world 's greatest biodiversity some 1.9 million species are officially catalogued , but this is believed to be just a small percentage of the species that actually exist .
researchers estimate that about 100 species die out every year , and since their function in the ecosystem is not necessarily known , scientists are not in a position to identify the consequences of their extinction .
gudrun mernitz is co-founder of the resource center for marine organisms .
she and her team have isolated several hundred substances out of marine micro-organisms , which are now being examined as potential components in pharmaceuticals . " several might be active against types of cancer , " said mernitz .
in the past 10 years , some 6 percent of medicines developed were derived from natural substances , says rolf hoemke from the association of research-based pharmaceuticals companies .
" it might be anything , even the intestines of a bug , " he said .
the pharmaceutical potential of biodiversity should not underestimated .
researchers from conservation international take regular field trips to document biodiversity and to locate where the establishment of conservation areas would be most constructive .
the idea is that by protecting animal and plant species from pollution and poaching , they may adjust over time to climate change .
author : marion huetter -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de extinction threatens over one fifth of world 's plants the world 's plants are facing an extinction rate on a par with mammals .
one in five plant species is at threat of dying out , says a new study released ahead of the un 's biodiversity summit in japan in october .
-lrb- 29.09.2010 -rrb- russia convenes leaders ' summit to save tigers from extinction the fate of the world 's 3,500 wild tigers is the theme at a conference in russia this week .
leaders from the 13 nations with wild tigers are meeting amid claims that the animals could be extinct within a dozen years .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think should be done to preserve biodiversity ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 main page english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv .
global 3000 28.03.2011 edition as video on demand radio listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 31.03.11 -rrb- the living planet page get connected global ideas : stay up to date facebook twitter videos on youtube podcast via rss-feed podcast via itunes our planet dw 's in depth reporting on environement and development issues .
click here © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread -pipe- protecting biodiversity in suriname -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.01.2011 home europe turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power hydropower biodiversity -pipe- 23.11.2010 threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : leatherback turtles have existed for millions of years the earth is home to some 20 million species , and many more that scientists believe have never been identified .
they say species extinctions are on the rise , with repercussions for mankind . the leatherback turtle lives on the coast of suriname .
weighing up to 700 kilos -lrb- 1,540 pounds -rrb- and as long as 2.5 meters -lrb- 8 feet -rrb- , it 's the world 's largest sea turtle .
but sheer size is n't enough to prevent it from dying out .
its reproductive patterns are highly sensitive to rising temperatures : sands in many areas are today so scorching that eggs can not survive , and moreover , sand temperatures determine the sex ratio of turtle eggs .
if the sand in which they lay their eggs gets too hot , more female turtles are produced – which destroys the natural gender balance and endangers breeding success over the long term .
a further problem is loss of nesting and feeding habitats due to rising sea-levels .
taken together , all this means their numbers are declining dramatically and they have been added to the international union for conservation of nature -lrb- iucn -rrb- " red list " of threatened species .
according to experts , if no action is taken to protect leatherbacks , these reptiles , which have existed for over 65 million years , will disappear in our lifetime .
climate change and biodiversity bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : clownfish are losing their sense of smell the united nations declared 2010 to be the international year of biodiversity , with research showing that , via global warming , man is responsible for the greatest extinction of wildlife since the demise of the dinosaurs .
one-fifth of the world 's vertebrates face extinction , according to the latest figures released by the iucn .
in fact , the role played by global warming is a matter of keen debate .
many scientists believe that other factors contribute , such as poaching , and the fact that the consequences of climate change are intensified by pollution .
climate change is also having severe impacts on migratory species .
that is also likely to be increasingly disruptive , experts say .
" these days , you come across species in places where they 've never been before , " said wendy foden , of the species program run by the iucn in london .
" some species are migrating to colder regions , and in south america , that means further south and higher altitudes . "
marine life is equally affected but the animals have fewer migratory options .
increased co2 levels in the atmosphere are changing ocean ph levels , a process which alters many species ' habitat .
what it means for mankind helen foden cites the example of the clownfish .
“ when the water is more acidic than usual , clownfish start to lose their sense of smell , " she said .
like many reef and coastal fish , clownfish are swept off their home reefs into the open ocean as babies , and use their acute senses of smell to find their way back .
the tiny larvae of many coastal fish rely on scent cues in the water to help locate adult habitat .
iucn experts now hope to use the popularity of the clownfish to raise awareness of how climate change is impacting ecosystems .
" thanks to the movie ‘ finding nemo , ' everyone is familiar with clownfish , " said foden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the tiny noblella pygmaea mini frog was only discovered in 2009 species extinction has an immediate effect on mankind .
according to a recent survey carried out in germany , two-thirds of those questioned said that they would be personally affected by biodiversity loss , but mainly in terms of their leisure-time activities .
in fact , the repercussions will be significantly further-reaching .
the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity -lrb- teeb -rrb- study is a major international initiative set up to draw attention to the global economic benefits of biodiversity and to highlight the growing costs of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation . it puts the worldwide economic value of the pollination service provided by insect pollinators , for example , at some € 153 billion -lrb- $ 210 billion -rrb- – proof that species ' extinction is about far more than leisure activities .
however , the teeb study has been unable to give a precise figure to the cost of loss of biodiversity , simply because many species have never been identified . unknown species bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south america is believed to be home to the world 's greatest biodiversity some 1.9 million species are officially catalogued , but this is believed to be just a small percentage of the species that actually exist .
researchers estimate that about 100 species die out every year , and since their function in the ecosystem is not necessarily known , scientists are not in a position to identify the consequences of their extinction .
gudrun mernitz is co-founder of the resource center for marine organisms .
she and her team have isolated several hundred substances out of marine micro-organisms , which are now being examined as potential components in pharmaceuticals . " several might be active against types of cancer , " said mernitz .
in the past 10 years , some 6 percent of medicines developed were derived from natural substances , says rolf hoemke from the association of research-based pharmaceuticals companies .
" it might be anything , even the intestines of a bug , " he said .
the pharmaceutical potential of biodiversity should not underestimated .
researchers from conservation international take regular field trips to document biodiversity and to locate where the establishment of conservation areas would be most constructive .
the idea is that by protecting animal and plant species from pollution and poaching , they may adjust over time to climate change .
author : marion huetter -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de extinction threatens over one fifth of world 's plants the world 's plants are facing an extinction rate on a par with mammals .
one in five plant species is at threat of dying out , says a new study released ahead of the un 's biodiversity summit in japan in october .
-lrb- 29.09.2010 -rrb- russia convenes leaders ' summit to save tigers from extinction the fate of the world 's 3,500 wild tigers is the theme at a conference in russia this week .
leaders from the 13 nations with wild tigers are meeting amid claims that the animals could be extinct within a dozen years .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think should be done to preserve biodiversity ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 main page english deutsch español 中文 عربي dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv .
global 3000 17.01.2011 edition as video on demand radio listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 20.01.11 -rrb- the living planet page get connected global ideas : stay up to date facebook twitter videos on youtube podcast via rss-feed podcast via itunes our planet dw 's in depth reporting on environement and development issues .
click here © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
death sentence puts pakistan 's blasphemy law in the spotlight -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 23.11.2010 death sentence puts pakistan 's blasphemy law in the spotlight großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : asia bibi 's family members are hoping for a presidential pardon pakistan 's opinion makers are engaged in a heated debate about the country 's blasphemy law after a 45-year-old christian woman was sentenced to death . pakistan 's blasphemy law has once again become a topic of heated discussion after the recent handing down of the death sentence to asia bibi .
the 45-year-old christian woman was arrested in june last year after her neighbors complained that she had made derogatory remarks about prophet mohammed .
blasphemy and lynch justice when it comes to blasphemy in the islamic republic of pakistan , the law is clear - it is a crime punishable by death to speak ill of islam and prophet mohammed .
although hundreds have been convicted of blasphemy , nobody in pakistan has ever been executed for the offence .
most convictions are retracted after the accused makes an appeal .
however , angry mobs have killed people accused of blasphemy .
in july this year , two christian brothers were gunned down in faisalabad after being accused of writing a sacrilegious letter against the prophet .
fareed ahmad pracha from the muslim movement jamaat i islami is an ardent defender of the blasphemy law .
" we have false murder cases in our country , false witnesses and it is possible that a case may be wrong , " he said . "
" we just want to say that the law should be enforced properly , there should not be any change made into the blasphemy law , we will not tolerate or accept this .
if you make way even for a single change in the law , then there will be a number of changes , whereas there has never been a case where anyone has been punished . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : there have been demonstrations for asia bibi all over the world , including in pakistan call for repeal of the law asia bibi ’ s sentencing to death has triggered an outcry among human rights groups and the international community .
some pakistani politicians have also called on the president to pardon asia bibi .
bibi herself has said that she was involved in a dispute after some women laborers she was in the fields with said they would not drink water from the same bowl because she was not a muslim .
she says they slapped her and pulled her hair .
they apparently later went to the police and accused her of making derogatory remarks about prophet mohammed .
sisal chaudhary , a local christian leader in pakistan , is angry about discrimination against the christian minority in pakistan .
" many innocent people have been killed , " he pointed out .
" people who did not even have a case registered against them .
how can you stop this ?
there is only one solution to this and that is for this law to be completely repealed .
many people have suffered , many settlements have been razed down because of this law , many people have spent 10 or 12 years in prison .
it is wrong to say that no one has been really killed because of this law .
now they want to start hanging people but they have been killing people for a long time . "
shahbaz bhatti , pakistan 's minister for minority affairs , has now been commissioned by president asif ali zardari to look into the case .
a christian himself , he has said it was a personal dispute and asia bibi did not commit blasphemy .
he is due to submit the findings of his report on wednesday .
author : manasi golapakrishnan editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- irish blasphemy law triggers protests blasphemy is now a crime in ireland punishable by a fine .
atheists and the osce have called on dublin to repeal the law as quickly as possible , but some countries , such as pakistan , think it is worth copying .
-lrb- 14.01.2010 -rrb- german-iranian author receives culture prize after religious row after a lot of controversy , the hessian culture prize 2009 has been presented .
one of the winners , navid kermani , received an official apology for being temporarily denied the award .
-lrb- 27.11.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 afghanistan british pm david cameron hopes that uk troops can begin withdrawing from afghanistan next year .
daniel korski from the european council on foreign relations talks about europe 's fatigue with the afghan war december asia quiz quiz of the month human rights amnesty international has demanded an end to judicial caning in malaysia .
many immigrants are caned in malaysia , says lance lattig , the author of a new report by amnesty international listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 07.12.10 the afghan " war fatigue " of the european countries defectors from north korea the asian gaza peace caravan podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online asia compact join us on facebook ! © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
death sentence puts pakistan 's blasphemy law in the spotlight -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 23.11.2010 death sentence puts pakistan 's blasphemy law in the spotlight großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : asia bibi 's family members are hoping for a presidential pardon pakistan 's opinion makers are engaged in a heated debate about the country 's blasphemy law after a 45-year-old christian woman was sentenced to death . pakistan 's blasphemy law has once again become a topic of heated discussion after the recent handing down of the death sentence to asia bibi .
the 45-year-old christian woman was arrested in june last year after her neighbors complained that she had made derogatory remarks about prophet mohammed .
blasphemy and lynch justice when it comes to blasphemy in the islamic republic of pakistan , the law is clear - it is a crime punishable by death to speak ill of islam and prophet mohammed .
although hundreds have been convicted of blasphemy , nobody in pakistan has ever been executed for the offence .
most convictions are retracted after the accused makes an appeal .
however , angry mobs have killed people accused of blasphemy .
in july this year , two christian brothers were gunned down in faisalabad after being accused of writing a sacrilegious letter against the prophet .
fareed ahmad pracha from the muslim movement jamaat i islami is an ardent defender of the blasphemy law .
" we have false murder cases in our country , false witnesses and it is possible that a case may be wrong , " he said . "
" we just want to say that the law should be enforced properly , there should not be any change made into the blasphemy law , we will not tolerate or accept this .
if you make way even for a single change in the law , then there will be a number of changes , whereas there has never been a case where anyone has been punished . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : there have been demonstrations for asia bibi all over the world , including in pakistan call for repeal of the law asia bibi ’ s sentencing to death has triggered an outcry among human rights groups and the international community .
some pakistani politicians have also called on the president to pardon asia bibi .
bibi herself has said that she was involved in a dispute after some women laborers she was in the fields with said they would not drink water from the same bowl because she was not a muslim .
she says they slapped her and pulled her hair .
they apparently later went to the police and accused her of making derogatory remarks about prophet mohammed .
sisal chaudhary , a local christian leader in pakistan , is angry about discrimination against the christian minority in pakistan .
" many innocent people have been killed , " he pointed out .
" people who did not even have a case registered against them .
how can you stop this ?
there is only one solution to this and that is for this law to be completely repealed .
many people have suffered , many settlements have been razed down because of this law , many people have spent 10 or 12 years in prison .
it is wrong to say that no one has been really killed because of this law .
now they want to start hanging people but they have been killing people for a long time . "
shahbaz bhatti , pakistan 's minister for minority affairs , has now been commissioned by president asif ali zardari to look into the case .
a christian himself , he has said it was a personal dispute and asia bibi did not commit blasphemy .
he is due to submit the findings of his report on wednesday .
author : manasi golapakrishnan editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- irish blasphemy law triggers protests blasphemy is now a crime in ireland punishable by a fine .
atheists and the osce have called on dublin to repeal the law as quickly as possible , but some countries , such as pakistan , think it is worth copying .
-lrb- 14.01.2010 -rrb- german-iranian author receives culture prize after religious row after a lot of controversy , the hessian culture prize 2009 has been presented .
one of the winners , navid kermani , received an official apology for being temporarily denied the award .
-lrb- 27.11.2009 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china party success china 's success depends on the communist party , but corruption might lead to catastrophe : hu foreign aid a helping hand the european commission has decided to help north korea tackle famine .
art ming vases chinese art collectors are traveling to europe to buy ancient works from their own country .
threatened communities preserving tribal communities and their habitats can help sustain the environment .
dr. james albert of the society for threatened peoples speaks about the dangers to tribals in india dw-tv europe live journal - news with reporters we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
death sentence puts pakistan 's blasphemy law in the spotlight -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 23.11.2010 death sentence puts pakistan 's blasphemy law in the spotlight großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : asia bibi 's family members are hoping for a presidential pardon pakistan 's opinion makers are engaged in a heated debate about the country 's blasphemy law after a 45-year-old christian woman was sentenced to death . pakistan 's blasphemy law has once again become a topic of heated discussion after the recent handing down of the death sentence to asia bibi .
the 45-year-old christian woman was arrested in june last year after her neighbors complained that she had made derogatory remarks about prophet mohammed .
blasphemy and lynch justice when it comes to blasphemy in the islamic republic of pakistan , the law is clear - it is a crime punishable by death to speak ill of islam and prophet mohammed .
although hundreds have been convicted of blasphemy , nobody in pakistan has ever been executed for the offence .
most convictions are retracted after the accused makes an appeal .
however , angry mobs have killed people accused of blasphemy .
in july this year , two christian brothers were gunned down in faisalabad after being accused of writing a sacrilegious letter against the prophet .
fareed ahmad pracha from the muslim movement jamaat i islami is an ardent defender of the blasphemy law .
" we have false murder cases in our country , false witnesses and it is possible that a case may be wrong , " he said . "
" we just want to say that the law should be enforced properly , there should not be any change made into the blasphemy law , we will not tolerate or accept this .
if you make way even for a single change in the law , then there will be a number of changes , whereas there has never been a case where anyone has been punished . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : there have been demonstrations for asia bibi all over the world , including in pakistan call for repeal of the law asia bibi ’ s sentencing to death has triggered an outcry among human rights groups and the international community .
some pakistani politicians have also called on the president to pardon asia bibi .
bibi herself has said that she was involved in a dispute after some women laborers she was in the fields with said they would not drink water from the same bowl because she was not a muslim .
she says they slapped her and pulled her hair .
they apparently later went to the police and accused her of making derogatory remarks about prophet mohammed .
sisal chaudhary , a local christian leader in pakistan , is angry about discrimination against the christian minority in pakistan .
" many innocent people have been killed , " he pointed out .
" people who did not even have a case registered against them .
how can you stop this ?
there is only one solution to this and that is for this law to be completely repealed .
many people have suffered , many settlements have been razed down because of this law , many people have spent 10 or 12 years in prison .
it is wrong to say that no one has been really killed because of this law .
now they want to start hanging people but they have been killing people for a long time . "
shahbaz bhatti , pakistan 's minister for minority affairs , has now been commissioned by president asif ali zardari to look into the case .
a christian himself , he has said it was a personal dispute and asia bibi did not commit blasphemy .
he is due to submit the findings of his report on wednesday .
author : manasi golapakrishnan editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- irish blasphemy law triggers protests blasphemy is now a crime in ireland punishable by a fine .
atheists and the osce have called on dublin to repeal the law as quickly as possible , but some countries , such as pakistan , think it is worth copying .
-lrb- 14.01.2010 -rrb- german-iranian author receives culture prize after religious row after a lot of controversy , the hessian culture prize 2009 has been presented .
one of the winners , navid kermani , received an official apology for being temporarily denied the award .
-lrb- 27.11.2009 -rrb- 07 may asia quiz quiz of the month global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media pakistan confidence in pakistan 's civilian government and military has crumbled since bin laden 's death .
khurram abbas from the pakistan institute of legislative development and transparency on whether pakistan will see an early election human rights lives on the line nomadic herders risk their lives protesting in inner mongolia to save their way of life .
worker 's rights foreign workers see a ray of hope in a new international standard of rights for workers .
vivian chong of caram asia on what sort of discrimination the foreign domestic workers face imf leading asian economies demand a greater say in who heads the imf .
enzio von pfeil of the economic time bond fund on whether european nations should still head the imf or whether it is time for emerging asian economies to have a greater say listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 30.05.11 pakistan might see early elections india and germany to expand ties stopping the multi-billion dollar illegal wildlife trade in asia podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread -pipe- protecting biodiversity in suriname -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home europe eco-loans in serbia permafrost in russia boreal forests in russia making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia climate change in the himalayas green industry park in india flood prevention in bangladesh hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa renewable energy on the cape verde islands dry forests in zambia agricultural insurance in ghana climate champions in uganda green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america energy-efficient wine production in chile solar roofs in brazil natural paradise in costa rica renewable energy in the caribbean micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power biodiversity -pipe- 23.11.2010 threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : leatherback turtles have existed for millions of years the earth is home to some 20 million species , and many more that scientists believe have never been identified .
they say species extinctions are on the rise , with repercussions for mankind . the leatherback turtle lives on the coast of suriname .
weighing up to 700 kilos -lrb- 1,540 pounds -rrb- and as long as 2.5 meters -lrb- 8 feet -rrb- , it 's the world 's largest sea turtle .
but sheer size is n't enough to prevent it from dying out .
its reproductive patterns are highly sensitive to rising temperatures : sands in many areas are today so scorching that eggs can not survive , and moreover , sand temperatures determine the sex ratio of turtle eggs .
if the sand in which they lay their eggs gets too hot , more female turtles are produced – which destroys the natural gender balance and endangers breeding success over the long term .
a further problem is loss of nesting and feeding habitats due to rising sea-levels .
taken together , all this means their numbers are declining dramatically and they have been added to the international union for conservation of nature -lrb- iucn -rrb- " red list " of threatened species .
according to experts , if no action is taken to protect leatherbacks , these reptiles , which have existed for over 65 million years , will disappear in our lifetime .
climate change and biodiversity bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : clownfish are losing their sense of smell the united nations declared 2010 to be the international year of biodiversity , with research showing that , via global warming , man is responsible for the greatest extinction of wildlife since the demise of the dinosaurs .
one-fifth of the world 's vertebrates face extinction , according to the latest figures released by the iucn .
in fact , the role played by global warming is a matter of keen debate .
many scientists believe that other factors contribute , such as poaching , and the fact that the consequences of climate change are intensified by pollution .
climate change is also having severe impacts on migratory species .
that is also likely to be increasingly disruptive , experts say .
" these days , you come across species in places where they 've never been before , " said wendy foden , of the species program run by the iucn in london .
" some species are migrating to colder regions , and in south america , that means further south and higher altitudes . "
marine life is equally affected but the animals have fewer migratory options .
increased co2 levels in the atmosphere are changing ocean ph levels , a process which alters many species ' habitat .
what it means for mankind helen foden cites the example of the clownfish .
“ when the water is more acidic than usual , clownfish start to lose their sense of smell , " she said .
like many reef and coastal fish , clownfish are swept off their home reefs into the open ocean as babies , and use their acute senses of smell to find their way back .
the tiny larvae of many coastal fish rely on scent cues in the water to help locate adult habitat .
iucn experts now hope to use the popularity of the clownfish to raise awareness of how climate change is impacting ecosystems .
" thanks to the movie ‘ finding nemo , ' everyone is familiar with clownfish , " said foden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the tiny noblella pygmaea mini frog was only discovered in 2009 species extinction has an immediate effect on mankind .
according to a recent survey carried out in germany , two-thirds of those questioned said that they would be personally affected by biodiversity loss , but mainly in terms of their leisure-time activities .
in fact , the repercussions will be significantly further-reaching .
the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity -lrb- teeb -rrb- study is a major international initiative set up to draw attention to the global economic benefits of biodiversity and to highlight the growing costs of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation . it puts the worldwide economic value of the pollination service provided by insect pollinators , for example , at some € 153 billion -lrb- $ 210 billion -rrb- – proof that species ' extinction is about far more than leisure activities .
however , the teeb study has been unable to give a precise figure to the cost of loss of biodiversity , simply because many species have never been identified . unknown species bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south america is believed to be home to the world 's greatest biodiversity some 1.9 million species are officially catalogued , but this is believed to be just a small percentage of the species that actually exist .
researchers estimate that about 100 species die out every year , and since their function in the ecosystem is not necessarily known , scientists are not in a position to identify the consequences of their extinction .
gudrun mernitz is co-founder of the resource center for marine organisms .
she and her team have isolated several hundred substances out of marine micro-organisms , which are now being examined as potential components in pharmaceuticals . " several might be active against types of cancer , " said mernitz .
in the past 10 years , some 6 percent of medicines developed were derived from natural substances , says rolf hoemke from the association of research-based pharmaceuticals companies .
" it might be anything , even the intestines of a bug , " he said .
the pharmaceutical potential of biodiversity should not underestimated .
researchers from conservation international take regular field trips to document biodiversity and to locate where the establishment of conservation areas would be most constructive .
the idea is that by protecting animal and plant species from pollution and poaching , they may adjust over time to climate change .
author : marion huetter -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de extinction threatens over one fifth of world 's plants the world 's plants are facing an extinction rate on a par with mammals .
one in five plant species is at threat of dying out , says a new study released ahead of the un 's biodiversity summit in japan in october .
-lrb- 29.09.2010 -rrb- russia convenes leaders ' summit to save tigers from extinction the fate of the world 's 3,500 wild tigers is the theme at a conference in russia this week .
leaders from the 13 nations with wild tigers are meeting amid claims that the animals could be extinct within a dozen years .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- 07 main page english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv .
global 3000 11.07.2011 edition as video on demand radio listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 07.07.11 -rrb- the living planet page get connected global ideas : stay up to date facebook twitter videos on youtube podcast via rss-feed podcast via itunes our planet dw 's in depth reporting on environement and development issues .
click here © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread -pipe- protecting biodiversity in suriname -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.06.2011 home europe boreal forests in russia making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia green industry park in india hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa renewable energy on the cape verde islands dry forests in zambia agricultural insurance in ghana climate champions in uganda green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america energy-efficient wine production in chile solar roofs in brazil natural paradise in costa rica renewable energy in the caribbean micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features biomass geothermal wind power solar power hydropower biodiversity -pipe- 23.11.2010 threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : leatherback turtles have existed for millions of years the earth is home to some 20 million species , and many more that scientists believe have never been identified .
they say species extinctions are on the rise , with repercussions for mankind . the leatherback turtle lives on the coast of suriname .
weighing up to 700 kilos -lrb- 1,540 pounds -rrb- and as long as 2.5 meters -lrb- 8 feet -rrb- , it 's the world 's largest sea turtle .
but sheer size is n't enough to prevent it from dying out .
its reproductive patterns are highly sensitive to rising temperatures : sands in many areas are today so scorching that eggs can not survive , and moreover , sand temperatures determine the sex ratio of turtle eggs .
if the sand in which they lay their eggs gets too hot , more female turtles are produced – which destroys the natural gender balance and endangers breeding success over the long term .
a further problem is loss of nesting and feeding habitats due to rising sea-levels .
taken together , all this means their numbers are declining dramatically and they have been added to the international union for conservation of nature -lrb- iucn -rrb- " red list " of threatened species .
according to experts , if no action is taken to protect leatherbacks , these reptiles , which have existed for over 65 million years , will disappear in our lifetime .
climate change and biodiversity bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : clownfish are losing their sense of smell the united nations declared 2010 to be the international year of biodiversity , with research showing that , via global warming , man is responsible for the greatest extinction of wildlife since the demise of the dinosaurs .
one-fifth of the world 's vertebrates face extinction , according to the latest figures released by the iucn .
in fact , the role played by global warming is a matter of keen debate .
many scientists believe that other factors contribute , such as poaching , and the fact that the consequences of climate change are intensified by pollution .
climate change is also having severe impacts on migratory species .
that is also likely to be increasingly disruptive , experts say .
" these days , you come across species in places where they 've never been before , " said wendy foden , of the species program run by the iucn in london .
" some species are migrating to colder regions , and in south america , that means further south and higher altitudes . "
marine life is equally affected but the animals have fewer migratory options .
increased co2 levels in the atmosphere are changing ocean ph levels , a process which alters many species ' habitat .
what it means for mankind helen foden cites the example of the clownfish .
“ when the water is more acidic than usual , clownfish start to lose their sense of smell , " she said .
like many reef and coastal fish , clownfish are swept off their home reefs into the open ocean as babies , and use their acute senses of smell to find their way back .
the tiny larvae of many coastal fish rely on scent cues in the water to help locate adult habitat .
iucn experts now hope to use the popularity of the clownfish to raise awareness of how climate change is impacting ecosystems .
" thanks to the movie ‘ finding nemo , ' everyone is familiar with clownfish , " said foden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the tiny noblella pygmaea mini frog was only discovered in 2009 species extinction has an immediate effect on mankind .
according to a recent survey carried out in germany , two-thirds of those questioned said that they would be personally affected by biodiversity loss , but mainly in terms of their leisure-time activities .
in fact , the repercussions will be significantly further-reaching .
the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity -lrb- teeb -rrb- study is a major international initiative set up to draw attention to the global economic benefits of biodiversity and to highlight the growing costs of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation . it puts the worldwide economic value of the pollination service provided by insect pollinators , for example , at some € 153 billion -lrb- $ 210 billion -rrb- – proof that species ' extinction is about far more than leisure activities .
however , the teeb study has been unable to give a precise figure to the cost of loss of biodiversity , simply because many species have never been identified . unknown species bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south america is believed to be home to the world 's greatest biodiversity some 1.9 million species are officially catalogued , but this is believed to be just a small percentage of the species that actually exist .
researchers estimate that about 100 species die out every year , and since their function in the ecosystem is not necessarily known , scientists are not in a position to identify the consequences of their extinction .
gudrun mernitz is co-founder of the resource center for marine organisms .
she and her team have isolated several hundred substances out of marine micro-organisms , which are now being examined as potential components in pharmaceuticals . " several might be active against types of cancer , " said mernitz .
in the past 10 years , some 6 percent of medicines developed were derived from natural substances , says rolf hoemke from the association of research-based pharmaceuticals companies .
" it might be anything , even the intestines of a bug , " he said .
the pharmaceutical potential of biodiversity should not underestimated .
researchers from conservation international take regular field trips to document biodiversity and to locate where the establishment of conservation areas would be most constructive .
the idea is that by protecting animal and plant species from pollution and poaching , they may adjust over time to climate change .
author : marion huetter -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de extinction threatens over one fifth of world 's plants the world 's plants are facing an extinction rate on a par with mammals .
one in five plant species is at threat of dying out , says a new study released ahead of the un 's biodiversity summit in japan in october .
-lrb- 29.09.2010 -rrb- russia convenes leaders ' summit to save tigers from extinction the fate of the world 's 3,500 wild tigers is the theme at a conference in russia this week .
leaders from the 13 nations with wild tigers are meeting amid claims that the animals could be extinct within a dozen years .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- 07 main page english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv .
global 3000 06.06.2011 edition as video on demand radio listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 02.06.11 -rrb- the living planet page get connected global ideas : stay up to date facebook twitter videos on youtube podcast via rss-feed podcast via itunes our planet dw 's in depth reporting on environement and development issues .
click here © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread -pipe- protecting biodiversity in suriname -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.05.2011 home europe boreal forests in russia making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa agricultural insurance in ghana climate champions in uganda green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america renewable energy in the caribbean micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features wind power solar power hydropower biodiversity -pipe- 23.11.2010 threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : leatherback turtles have existed for millions of years the earth is home to some 20 million species , and many more that scientists believe have never been identified .
they say species extinctions are on the rise , with repercussions for mankind . the leatherback turtle lives on the coast of suriname .
weighing up to 700 kilos -lrb- 1,540 pounds -rrb- and as long as 2.5 meters -lrb- 8 feet -rrb- , it 's the world 's largest sea turtle .
but sheer size is n't enough to prevent it from dying out .
its reproductive patterns are highly sensitive to rising temperatures : sands in many areas are today so scorching that eggs can not survive , and moreover , sand temperatures determine the sex ratio of turtle eggs .
if the sand in which they lay their eggs gets too hot , more female turtles are produced – which destroys the natural gender balance and endangers breeding success over the long term .
a further problem is loss of nesting and feeding habitats due to rising sea-levels .
taken together , all this means their numbers are declining dramatically and they have been added to the international union for conservation of nature -lrb- iucn -rrb- " red list " of threatened species .
according to experts , if no action is taken to protect leatherbacks , these reptiles , which have existed for over 65 million years , will disappear in our lifetime .
climate change and biodiversity bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : clownfish are losing their sense of smell the united nations declared 2010 to be the international year of biodiversity , with research showing that , via global warming , man is responsible for the greatest extinction of wildlife since the demise of the dinosaurs .
one-fifth of the world 's vertebrates face extinction , according to the latest figures released by the iucn .
in fact , the role played by global warming is a matter of keen debate .
many scientists believe that other factors contribute , such as poaching , and the fact that the consequences of climate change are intensified by pollution .
climate change is also having severe impacts on migratory species .
that is also likely to be increasingly disruptive , experts say .
" these days , you come across species in places where they 've never been before , " said wendy foden , of the species program run by the iucn in london .
" some species are migrating to colder regions , and in south america , that means further south and higher altitudes . "
marine life is equally affected but the animals have fewer migratory options .
increased co2 levels in the atmosphere are changing ocean ph levels , a process which alters many species ' habitat .
what it means for mankind helen foden cites the example of the clownfish .
“ when the water is more acidic than usual , clownfish start to lose their sense of smell , " she said .
like many reef and coastal fish , clownfish are swept off their home reefs into the open ocean as babies , and use their acute senses of smell to find their way back .
the tiny larvae of many coastal fish rely on scent cues in the water to help locate adult habitat .
iucn experts now hope to use the popularity of the clownfish to raise awareness of how climate change is impacting ecosystems .
" thanks to the movie ‘ finding nemo , ' everyone is familiar with clownfish , " said foden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the tiny noblella pygmaea mini frog was only discovered in 2009 species extinction has an immediate effect on mankind .
according to a recent survey carried out in germany , two-thirds of those questioned said that they would be personally affected by biodiversity loss , but mainly in terms of their leisure-time activities .
in fact , the repercussions will be significantly further-reaching .
the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity -lrb- teeb -rrb- study is a major international initiative set up to draw attention to the global economic benefits of biodiversity and to highlight the growing costs of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation . it puts the worldwide economic value of the pollination service provided by insect pollinators , for example , at some € 153 billion -lrb- $ 210 billion -rrb- – proof that species ' extinction is about far more than leisure activities .
however , the teeb study has been unable to give a precise figure to the cost of loss of biodiversity , simply because many species have never been identified . unknown species bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south america is believed to be home to the world 's greatest biodiversity some 1.9 million species are officially catalogued , but this is believed to be just a small percentage of the species that actually exist .
researchers estimate that about 100 species die out every year , and since their function in the ecosystem is not necessarily known , scientists are not in a position to identify the consequences of their extinction .
gudrun mernitz is co-founder of the resource center for marine organisms .
she and her team have isolated several hundred substances out of marine micro-organisms , which are now being examined as potential components in pharmaceuticals . " several might be active against types of cancer , " said mernitz .
in the past 10 years , some 6 percent of medicines developed were derived from natural substances , says rolf hoemke from the association of research-based pharmaceuticals companies .
" it might be anything , even the intestines of a bug , " he said .
the pharmaceutical potential of biodiversity should not underestimated .
researchers from conservation international take regular field trips to document biodiversity and to locate where the establishment of conservation areas would be most constructive .
the idea is that by protecting animal and plant species from pollution and poaching , they may adjust over time to climate change .
author : marion huetter -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de extinction threatens over one fifth of world 's plants the world 's plants are facing an extinction rate on a par with mammals .
one in five plant species is at threat of dying out , says a new study released ahead of the un 's biodiversity summit in japan in october .
-lrb- 29.09.2010 -rrb- russia convenes leaders ' summit to save tigers from extinction the fate of the world 's 3,500 wild tigers is the theme at a conference in russia this week .
leaders from the 13 nations with wild tigers are meeting amid claims that the animals could be extinct within a dozen years .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- 07 main page english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv .
global 3000 03.05.2011 edition as video on demand radio listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 28.04.11 -rrb- the living planet page get connected global ideas : stay up to date facebook twitter videos on youtube podcast via rss-feed podcast via itunes our planet dw 's in depth reporting on environement and development issues .
click here © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread -pipe- protecting biodiversity in suriname -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home europe turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia bio-coal in india biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power hydropower biodiversity -pipe- 23.11.2010 threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : leatherback turtles have existed for millions of years the earth is home to some 20 million species , and many more that scientists believe have never been identified .
they say species extinctions are on the rise , with repercussions for mankind . the leatherback turtle lives on the coast of suriname .
weighing up to 700 kilos -lrb- 1,540 pounds -rrb- and as long as 2.5 meters -lrb- 8 feet -rrb- , it 's the world 's largest sea turtle .
but sheer size is n't enough to prevent it from dying out .
its reproductive patterns are highly sensitive to rising temperatures : sands in many areas are today so scorching that eggs can not survive , and moreover , sand temperatures determine the sex ratio of turtle eggs .
if the sand in which they lay their eggs gets too hot , more female turtles are produced – which destroys the natural gender balance and endangers breeding success over the long term .
a further problem is loss of nesting and feeding habitats due to rising sea-levels .
taken together , all this means their numbers are declining dramatically and they have been added to the international union for conservation of nature -lrb- iucn -rrb- " red list " of threatened species .
according to experts , if no action is taken to protect leatherbacks , these reptiles , which have existed for over 65 million years , will disappear in our lifetime .
climate change and biodiversity bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : clownfish are losing their sense of smell the united nations declared 2010 to be the international year of biodiversity , with research showing that , via global warming , man is responsible for the greatest extinction of wildlife since the demise of the dinosaurs .
one-fifth of the world 's vertebrates face extinction , according to the latest figures released by the iucn .
in fact , the role played by global warming is a matter of keen debate .
many scientists believe that other factors contribute , such as poaching , and the fact that the consequences of climate change are intensified by pollution .
climate change is also having severe impacts on migratory species .
that is also likely to be increasingly disruptive , experts say .
" these days , you come across species in places where they 've never been before , " said wendy foden , of the species program run by the iucn in london .
" some species are migrating to colder regions , and in south america , that means further south and higher altitudes . "
marine life is equally affected but the animals have fewer migratory options .
increased co2 levels in the atmosphere are changing ocean ph levels , a process which alters many species ' habitat .
what it means for mankind helen foden cites the example of the clownfish .
“ when the water is more acidic than usual , clownfish start to lose their sense of smell , " she said .
like many reef and coastal fish , clownfish are swept off their home reefs into the open ocean as babies , and use their acute senses of smell to find their way back .
the tiny larvae of many coastal fish rely on scent cues in the water to help locate adult habitat .
iucn experts now hope to use the popularity of the clownfish to raise awareness of how climate change is impacting ecosystems .
" thanks to the movie ‘ finding nemo , ' everyone is familiar with clownfish , " said foden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the tiny noblella pygmaea mini frog was only discovered in 2009 species extinction has an immediate effect on mankind .
according to a recent survey carried out in germany , two-thirds of those questioned said that they would be personally affected by biodiversity loss , but mainly in terms of their leisure-time activities .
in fact , the repercussions will be significantly further-reaching .
the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity -lrb- teeb -rrb- study is a major international initiative set up to draw attention to the global economic benefits of biodiversity and to highlight the growing costs of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation . it puts the worldwide economic value of the pollination service provided by insect pollinators , for example , at some € 153 billion -lrb- $ 210 billion -rrb- – proof that species ' extinction is about far more than leisure activities .
however , the teeb study has been unable to give a precise figure to the cost of loss of biodiversity , simply because many species have never been identified . unknown species bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south america is believed to be home to the world 's greatest biodiversity some 1.9 million species are officially catalogued , but this is believed to be just a small percentage of the species that actually exist .
researchers estimate that about 100 species die out every year , and since their function in the ecosystem is not necessarily known , scientists are not in a position to identify the consequences of their extinction .
gudrun mernitz is co-founder of the resource center for marine organisms .
she and her team have isolated several hundred substances out of marine micro-organisms , which are now being examined as potential components in pharmaceuticals . " several might be active against types of cancer , " said mernitz .
in the past 10 years , some 6 percent of medicines developed were derived from natural substances , says rolf hoemke from the association of research-based pharmaceuticals companies .
" it might be anything , even the intestines of a bug , " he said .
the pharmaceutical potential of biodiversity should not underestimated .
researchers from conservation international take regular field trips to document biodiversity and to locate where the establishment of conservation areas would be most constructive .
the idea is that by protecting animal and plant species from pollution and poaching , they may adjust over time to climate change .
author : marion huetter -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de extinction threatens over one fifth of world 's plants the world 's plants are facing an extinction rate on a par with mammals .
one in five plant species is at threat of dying out , says a new study released ahead of the un 's biodiversity summit in japan in october .
-lrb- 29.09.2010 -rrb- russia convenes leaders ' summit to save tigers from extinction the fate of the world 's 3,500 wild tigers is the theme at a conference in russia this week .
leaders from the 13 nations with wild tigers are meeting amid claims that the animals could be extinct within a dozen years .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think should be done to preserve biodiversity ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 main page english deutsch español 中文 عربي dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv .
global 3000 27.12.2010 edition as video on demand radio listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 23.12.10 -rrb- get connected global ideas : stay up to date facebook twitter videos on youtube podcast via rss-feed podcast via itunes our planet dw 's in depth reporting on environement and development issues .
click here © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 23.11.2010 dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : buying kagawa was one of the smartest and cheapest things dortmund have done " money scores goals " - so the old football cliche .
but while some pricey transfers have yet to yield dividends , players acquired for relatively little or nothing at all have been setting german soccer on fire . 350,000 euros is a fair amount of a money - enough , for instance , to purchase a comfortable dwelling in a decent neighborhood in most european cities .
but it 's not sufficient to buy the top-scoring midfielder in a major european football league .
unless , of course , that player is shinji kagawa .
dortmund 's acquisition of the japanese whirlwind for the soccer equivalent of loose change has been one of the stories of the year .
but it 's actually fairly typical both of the dortmund squad overall and a topsy-turvy season in which bargains have outperformed big-name signings .
germany 's sportbild newspaper recently did some math and discovered that the dortmund side currently steamrolling the league cost the club less than one-sixth of what it paid for its 2002 squad , the last time dortmund won the bundesliga .
bildunterschrift : barrios ' value has shot through the roof from back to front , dortmund have been getting excellent returns on modest investments .
even the club 's top striker , lukas barrios , only cost 4.5 million euros -lrb- $ 6.2 million -rrb- in transfer fees , a pittance compared with the sums bayern munich paid for mario gomez -lrb- ca .
35 million euros -rrb- or schalke for klaas-jan huntelaar -lrb- 14 million -rrb- .
kagawa and barrios illustrate the impact that good scouting can have .
discovering new talent may be harder than opening up the purse strings to purchase established players ' services , but it 's a better way to improve a squad .
persistence pays off bildunterschrift : cisse was worth the wait for freiburg if barrios is a bargain , freiburg 's papiss demba cisse is nothing short of sensation .
in 29 games for the small southern german club , the senegalese striker has scored 16 goals .
the 1.5 million euros freiburg paid to acquire him from french club metz in the winter break last year may be the highest transfer sum in club history , but he 's been worth every cent .
by comparison , lukas podolski , who cost cologne 10 million , only has 6 goals in 40 matches .
freiburg were originally rebuffed by metz when they made their first bid for cisse at the start of last season .
but they hung tough in pursuit of the man they wanted , and their patience has been rewarded .
bildunterschrift : ya konan has given hanover reason to smile another steal has been hanover 's didier ya konan who came in at the beginning of last season from rosenborg trondheim for 500,000 euros .
his 12 goals in 31 matches does n't immediately take one 's breath away but consider how impotent hanover 's attack otherwise is .
since his arrival , hanover has n't earned a single point from the ten games in which ya konan has n't been able to play .
the ivorian striker was a key reason why hanover avoided relegation last season and are fourth in the table after thirteen rounds in this one .
the half-a-million hanover shelled out now seems like next to nothing .
but some other valuable contributors have in fact come even cheaper .
fabulous freebies bildunterschrift : in piszczek , dortmund got a good defender for nothing even better than unearthing bargains is finding players whose contracts are expiring and thus can be had free of transfer charges .
one increasingly important member of dortmund 's squad is right back lukasz piszczek , who forced the own goal in the 2-1 win over freiburg on saturday that kept the men in yellow 's winning streak alive .
the polish national got relegated with hertha berlin last season , but dortmund recognized his potential .
and after an initial period of adjustment , he 's established himself in a hard-to-fill position for a title-worthy squad .
another way , of course , to acquire quality is to borrow it .
mainz , of course , have done fantastically well with rising german star lewis holtby this year .
he 's actually under contract to schalke , who must be ruing the decision to send him off for a year of development he obviously does n't need .
the undisputed masters of the rent-a-talent game , though , are nuremberg .
the club , as they 're known , borrowed a quartet of players from bayern and hamburg last year and successfully avoided relegation .
bildunterschrift : schieber , right , has helped nuremberg keep an even keel this year , julian schieber from stuttgart and mehmet ekici from bayern have been key members of a squad that has kept a comfortable distance between themselves and the drop zone .
arguably , borrowing talent does little for a club 's medium-term development .
on the other hand , nuremberg are above schalke and stuttgart in the table , and mainz are better than everyone but dortmund .
so it 's hard to take them to task for temporarily acquiring some good players for free .
author : jefferson chase editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dortmund stay top , raul awakens to lead schalke bundesliga leaders borussia dortmund clinched a 2-1 win over freiburg to keep ahead at the top of the league standings .
the much-criticzed raul , meanwhile , hit a hat trick as schalke demolished bremen 4-0 .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- germany coach loew taps young dortmund talent for sweden friendly the mercurial rise of youthful dortmund in the bundesliga has not gone unnoticed .
for wednesday 's match , germany 's coach has called up a quartet of dortmunders .
some may being staying in the national squad .
-lrb- 16.11.2010 -rrb- dortmund widen first-place bundesliga lead with victory against hamburg after goals from shinji kagawa and lucas barrios , dortmund managed to shut out opponents hamburg in friday 's lone bundesliga football match , keeping the team at the top of the table .
-lrb- 12.11.2010 -rrb- 07 dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
women 's world cup live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's next match against france : july 5 , 18:30 utc dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report corruption soccer scandal turkish police arrest 60 people in turkey 's biggest ever soccer match-fixing scandal .
anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 23.11.2010 dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : buying kagawa was one of the smartest and cheapest things dortmund have done " money scores goals " - so the old football cliche .
but while some pricey transfers have yet to yield dividends , players acquired for relatively little or nothing at all have been setting german soccer on fire . 350,000 euros is a fair amount of a money - enough , for instance , to purchase a comfortable dwelling in a decent neighborhood in most european cities .
but it 's not sufficient to buy the top-scoring midfielder in a major european football league .
unless , of course , that player is shinji kagawa .
dortmund 's acquisition of the japanese whirlwind for the soccer equivalent of loose change has been one of the stories of the year .
but it 's actually fairly typical both of the dortmund squad overall and a topsy-turvy season in which bargains have outperformed big-name signings .
germany 's sportbild newspaper recently did some math and discovered that the dortmund side currently steamrolling the league cost the club less than one-sixth of what it paid for its 2002 squad , the last time dortmund won the bundesliga .
bildunterschrift : barrios ' value has shot through the roof from back to front , dortmund have been getting excellent returns on modest investments .
even the club 's top striker , lukas barrios , only cost 4.5 million euros -lrb- $ 6.2 million -rrb- in transfer fees , a pittance compared with the sums bayern munich paid for mario gomez -lrb- ca .
35 million euros -rrb- or schalke for klaas-jan huntelaar -lrb- 14 million -rrb- .
kagawa and barrios illustrate the impact that good scouting can have .
discovering new talent may be harder than opening up the purse strings to purchase established players ' services , but it 's a better way to improve a squad .
persistence pays off bildunterschrift : cisse was worth the wait for freiburg if barrios is a bargain , freiburg 's papiss demba cisse is nothing short of sensation .
in 29 games for the small southern german club , the senegalese striker has scored 16 goals .
the 1.5 million euros freiburg paid to acquire him from french club metz in the winter break last year may be the highest transfer sum in club history , but he 's been worth every cent .
by comparison , lukas podolski , who cost cologne 10 million , only has 6 goals in 40 matches .
freiburg were originally rebuffed by metz when they made their first bid for cisse at the start of last season .
but they hung tough in pursuit of the man they wanted , and their patience has been rewarded .
bildunterschrift : ya konan has given hanover reason to smile another steal has been hanover 's didier ya konan who came in at the beginning of last season from rosenborg trondheim for 500,000 euros .
his 12 goals in 31 matches does n't immediately take one 's breath away but consider how impotent hanover 's attack otherwise is .
since his arrival , hanover has n't earned a single point from the ten games in which ya konan has n't been able to play .
the ivorian striker was a key reason why hanover avoided relegation last season and are fourth in the table after thirteen rounds in this one .
the half-a-million hanover shelled out now seems like next to nothing .
but some other valuable contributors have in fact come even cheaper .
fabulous freebies bildunterschrift : in piszczek , dortmund got a good defender for nothing even better than unearthing bargains is finding players whose contracts are expiring and thus can be had free of transfer charges .
one increasingly important member of dortmund 's squad is right back lukasz piszczek , who forced the own goal in the 2-1 win over freiburg on saturday that kept the men in yellow 's winning streak alive .
the polish national got relegated with hertha berlin last season , but dortmund recognized his potential .
and after an initial period of adjustment , he 's established himself in a hard-to-fill position for a title-worthy squad .
another way , of course , to acquire quality is to borrow it .
mainz , of course , have done fantastically well with rising german star lewis holtby this year .
he 's actually under contract to schalke , who must be ruing the decision to send him off for a year of development he obviously does n't need .
the undisputed masters of the rent-a-talent game , though , are nuremberg .
the club , as they 're known , borrowed a quartet of players from bayern and hamburg last year and successfully avoided relegation .
bildunterschrift : schieber , right , has helped nuremberg keep an even keel this year , julian schieber from stuttgart and mehmet ekici from bayern have been key members of a squad that has kept a comfortable distance between themselves and the drop zone .
arguably , borrowing talent does little for a club 's medium-term development .
on the other hand , nuremberg are above schalke and stuttgart in the table , and mainz are better than everyone but dortmund .
so it 's hard to take them to task for temporarily acquiring some good players for free .
author : jefferson chase editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dortmund stay top , raul awakens to lead schalke bundesliga leaders borussia dortmund clinched a 2-1 win over freiburg to keep ahead at the top of the league standings .
the much-criticzed raul , meanwhile , hit a hat trick as schalke demolished bremen 4-0 .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- germany coach loew taps young dortmund talent for sweden friendly the mercurial rise of youthful dortmund in the bundesliga has not gone unnoticed .
for wednesday 's match , germany 's coach has called up a quartet of dortmunders .
some may being staying in the national squad .
-lrb- 16.11.2010 -rrb- dortmund widen first-place bundesliga lead with victory against hamburg after goals from shinji kagawa and lucas barrios , dortmund managed to shut out opponents hamburg in friday 's lone bundesliga football match , keeping the team at the top of the table .
-lrb- 12.11.2010 -rrb- 07 dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report euro 2012 live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's euro 2012 qualifier vs. azerbaijan : june 7 , 16:45 utc © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 23.11.2010 ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cowen has come under pressure from all sides irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf . ireland 's prime minister brian cowen pulled the country out of the frying pan of debt on sunday , only to find himself plunged into the fire of a snap election on monday .
after securing a financial rescue believed to be worth up to 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- in loans from the european union and the international monetary fund , the fianna fail party leader was forced to promise early elections as his political friends and enemies both turned on him .
" it is my intention at the conclusion of the budgetary process , with the enactment of the necessary legislation in the new year , to then seek the dissolution of parliament , " prime minister brian cowen told reporters in a hastily-called press conference .
cowen was effectively yielding to his government 's junior coalition partners , the greens , who called for elections in january , although he did n't promise that they would be held in that month .
the two main opposition parties , labour and fine gael , had demanded an immediate dissolution of parliament instead .
" what is needed now is an immediate general election so that a new government , with a clear parliamentary majority , can prepare the four-year economic plan , complete negotiations with the eu and imf and frame a budget for 2011 , " fine gael leader enda kenny wrote in an e-mailed statement .
first things first bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland requested help with its runaway debts on sunday cowen 's government is set to publish a four-year economic plan on wednesday and a new , cost-cutting budget on december 7 - a process that is crucial to secure loan payments from the eu and imf .
cowen said these processes would have to be completed before the dissolution of parliament , so as to protect ireland from financial collapse .
the junior coalition partners , the greens , pledged to support the government only until january ; party leader john gormley called on cowen to name a date for elections in the new year , saying the irish people needed " political certainty " and had been " misled and betrayed " by the prime minister 's cabinet .
for about a week , ireland had insisted that it could recover its economy without outside help , but caved in on sunday and requested a bailout from the eu and imf , following in the footsteps of greece earlier this year .
the country faces a budget deficit of 32 percent of gross domestic product , a figure which has ballooned because of the government bailout of its largest moneylender , anglo-irish bank .
even without this extra expense , the country 's 2010 shortfall would have comfortably exceeded the eu 's prescribed limit of 3 percent of gdp .
tough sell for european leaders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel may struggle to convince her party and her people that germany should foot part of the irish bill german chancellor angela merkel said on monday that the irish rescue was " positive overall , " because under the terms of the new deal , dublin would be forced to obey terms set by the eu and imf .
merkel said the rescue package was necessary to stabilize the european single currency , the euro .
a similar loan package for greece earlier this year , the first of its kind , was particularly unpopular in germany , not least among merkel 's conservative christian democratic union .
britain 's cash-strapped government , which is implementing its own series of tough austerity measures , also came under fire for contributing to the irish rescue , but the government defended the action .
" ireland is a friend in need , and we are here to help , " the conservative chancellor of the exchequer , george osborne said .
also on monday , the credit ratings agency moody 's said it would probably downgrade ireland 's sovereign debt by several notches in light of the eu-imf rescue .
author : mark hallam -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- eu agrees bailout for ireland eu finance ministers have agreed on a bailout fund for ireland to tackle the country 's huge budget deficit and save its banking sector .
it 's the second eu bailout package this year .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- germany denies pressuring ireland over business tax a german government spokesman said ireland should be allowed to determine its own corporation tax rate , despite recent pressure from a senior finance expert in chancellor angela merkel 's party .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic what is the real price of aid for ireland 's government ? -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- the people of ireland face tough times -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- how the rescue package works -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- feedback has cowen made the right move , and did he have a choice ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 23.11.2010 ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cowen has come under pressure from all sides irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf . ireland 's prime minister brian cowen pulled the country out of the frying pan of debt on sunday , only to find himself plunged into the fire of a snap election on monday .
after securing a financial rescue believed to be worth up to 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- in loans from the european union and the international monetary fund , the fianna fail party leader was forced to promise early elections as his political friends and enemies both turned on him .
" it is my intention at the conclusion of the budgetary process , with the enactment of the necessary legislation in the new year , to then seek the dissolution of parliament , " prime minister brian cowen told reporters in a hastily-called press conference .
cowen was effectively yielding to his government 's junior coalition partners , the greens , who called for elections in january , although he did n't promise that they would be held in that month .
the two main opposition parties , labour and fine gael , had demanded an immediate dissolution of parliament instead .
" what is needed now is an immediate general election so that a new government , with a clear parliamentary majority , can prepare the four-year economic plan , complete negotiations with the eu and imf and frame a budget for 2011 , " fine gael leader enda kenny wrote in an e-mailed statement .
first things first bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland requested help with its runaway debts on sunday cowen 's government is set to publish a four-year economic plan on wednesday and a new , cost-cutting budget on december 7 - a process that is crucial to secure loan payments from the eu and imf .
cowen said these processes would have to be completed before the dissolution of parliament , so as to protect ireland from financial collapse .
the junior coalition partners , the greens , pledged to support the government only until january ; party leader john gormley called on cowen to name a date for elections in the new year , saying the irish people needed " political certainty " and had been " misled and betrayed " by the prime minister 's cabinet .
for about a week , ireland had insisted that it could recover its economy without outside help , but caved in on sunday and requested a bailout from the eu and imf , following in the footsteps of greece earlier this year .
the country faces a budget deficit of 32 percent of gross domestic product , a figure which has ballooned because of the government bailout of its largest moneylender , anglo-irish bank .
even without this extra expense , the country 's 2010 shortfall would have comfortably exceeded the eu 's prescribed limit of 3 percent of gdp .
tough sell for european leaders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel may struggle to convince her party and her people that germany should foot part of the irish bill german chancellor angela merkel said on monday that the irish rescue was " positive overall , " because under the terms of the new deal , dublin would be forced to obey terms set by the eu and imf .
merkel said the rescue package was necessary to stabilize the european single currency , the euro .
a similar loan package for greece earlier this year , the first of its kind , was particularly unpopular in germany , not least among merkel 's conservative christian democratic union .
britain 's cash-strapped government , which is implementing its own series of tough austerity measures , also came under fire for contributing to the irish rescue , but the government defended the action .
" ireland is a friend in need , and we are here to help , " the conservative chancellor of the exchequer , george osborne said .
also on monday , the credit ratings agency moody 's said it would probably downgrade ireland 's sovereign debt by several notches in light of the eu-imf rescue .
author : mark hallam -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- eu agrees bailout for ireland eu finance ministers have agreed on a bailout fund for ireland to tackle the country 's huge budget deficit and save its banking sector .
it 's the second eu bailout package this year .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- germany denies pressuring ireland over business tax a german government spokesman said ireland should be allowed to determine its own corporation tax rate , despite recent pressure from a senior finance expert in chancellor angela merkel 's party .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic what is the real price of aid for ireland 's government ? -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- the people of ireland face tough times -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- how the rescue package works -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 - das kulturmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 23.11.2010 ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cowen has come under pressure from all sides irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf . ireland 's prime minister brian cowen pulled the country out of the frying pan of debt on sunday , only to find himself plunged into the fire of a snap election on monday .
after securing a financial rescue believed to be worth up to 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- in loans from the european union and the international monetary fund , the fianna fail party leader was forced to promise early elections as his political friends and enemies both turned on him .
" it is my intention at the conclusion of the budgetary process , with the enactment of the necessary legislation in the new year , to then seek the dissolution of parliament , " prime minister brian cowen told reporters in a hastily-called press conference .
cowen was effectively yielding to his government 's junior coalition partners , the greens , who called for elections in january , although he did n't promise that they would be held in that month .
the two main opposition parties , labour and fine gael , had demanded an immediate dissolution of parliament instead .
" what is needed now is an immediate general election so that a new government , with a clear parliamentary majority , can prepare the four-year economic plan , complete negotiations with the eu and imf and frame a budget for 2011 , " fine gael leader enda kenny wrote in an e-mailed statement .
first things first bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland requested help with its runaway debts on sunday cowen 's government is set to publish a four-year economic plan on wednesday and a new , cost-cutting budget on december 7 - a process that is crucial to secure loan payments from the eu and imf .
cowen said these processes would have to be completed before the dissolution of parliament , so as to protect ireland from financial collapse .
the junior coalition partners , the greens , pledged to support the government only until january ; party leader john gormley called on cowen to name a date for elections in the new year , saying the irish people needed " political certainty " and had been " misled and betrayed " by the prime minister 's cabinet .
for about a week , ireland had insisted that it could recover its economy without outside help , but caved in on sunday and requested a bailout from the eu and imf , following in the footsteps of greece earlier this year .
the country faces a budget deficit of 32 percent of gross domestic product , a figure which has ballooned because of the government bailout of its largest moneylender , anglo-irish bank .
even without this extra expense , the country 's 2010 shortfall would have comfortably exceeded the eu 's prescribed limit of 3 percent of gdp .
tough sell for european leaders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel may struggle to convince her party and her people that germany should foot part of the irish bill german chancellor angela merkel said on monday that the irish rescue was " positive overall , " because under the terms of the new deal , dublin would be forced to obey terms set by the eu and imf .
merkel said the rescue package was necessary to stabilize the european single currency , the euro .
a similar loan package for greece earlier this year , the first of its kind , was particularly unpopular in germany , not least among merkel 's conservative christian democratic union .
britain 's cash-strapped government , which is implementing its own series of tough austerity measures , also came under fire for contributing to the irish rescue , but the government defended the action .
" ireland is a friend in need , and we are here to help , " the conservative chancellor of the exchequer , george osborne said .
also on monday , the credit ratings agency moody 's said it would probably downgrade ireland 's sovereign debt by several notches in light of the eu-imf rescue .
author : mark hallam -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- eu agrees bailout for ireland eu finance ministers have agreed on a bailout fund for ireland to tackle the country 's huge budget deficit and save its banking sector .
it 's the second eu bailout package this year .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- germany denies pressuring ireland over business tax a german government spokesman said ireland should be allowed to determine its own corporation tax rate , despite recent pressure from a senior finance expert in chancellor angela merkel 's party .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic what is the real price of aid for ireland 's government ? -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- the people of ireland face tough times -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- how the rescue package works -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
spain deutsche welle takes a closer look at the protesters camped out in central madrid .
watch the video poland poles protest the visit by a representative of the germans expelled from poland .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 23.11.2010 portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portugal is seen as a future candidate for help portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next . portuguese prime minister jose socrates said on monday that his country 's economy remained robust and that there was no need for lisbon to ask for a financial rescue package .
the comments came after ireland conceded in agreeing to apply for a financial bailout program from the european union and international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portuguese prime minister socrates welcomed the irish acceptance of help portugal is high on the list of possible future rescue package recipients .
however , socrates said that his country 's financial system was performing well and said that its level of public debt - expected to be 7.3 percent for 2010 - was in line with the eu average .
" there are no links between portugal and ireland , " said socrates .
" i 've heard a lot of talk of the imf .
the country does not have any need for aid . "
the prime minister said he hoped that the irish acceptance of a financial package , which follows that of greece earlier in the year , would reassure nervous lending markets .
" i hope that the fact that ireland has asked for european union funds will permit the situation on the markets to return to normal , because portugal is feeling the effects of contagion very much , " said socrates .
lisbon keen to stay in driving seat like the irish administration , which had been reluctant to seek assistance , portugal 's socialist government is keen to avoid the need for outside help and any resulting loss of sovereignty .
such a course of action could prove unpopular with the electorate , with many older voters remembering traumatic interventions by the imf in the 1970s and 1980s .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish rescue deal follows a bailout for greece earlier this year this led to public spending being slashed at a time when the welfare system was too insufficient to provide proper protection for those affected .
however , some believe that both the imf 's approach and the situation of a more developed portugal in 2010 mean that a bailout is not so unthinkable .
" i think the mood against the imf is changing slightly , " economist pedro lains told deutsche welle .
" you see people who are responsible - officials and those connected to the opposition social democratic party - now they are changing their discourse slightly : they 're saying it is not a drama , that if it comes maybe it 's necessary . "
the center-right social democrat opposition has said it will not vote against the state budget for 2011 .
included in the budget are plans to cut public sector salaries and narrow the deficit to 4.6 percent of gdp .
away from parliament , a general strike was planned for wednesday - the first in two decades to be called by both of portugal 's two main trade union federations .
spain also claims to be different in neighboring spain , another country viewed as likely to need help , prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero said there were differences with the irish situation .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland 's prime minister is facing elections after the budget is approved zapatero 's socialist party 's organizational secretary , marcelino iglesias , quoted the premier as saying that bank stress tests during the summer - to assess the preparedness of banks for another financial crisis - had shown that the spanish financial sector was strong .
dublin 's economic woes stem in large part from the necessity to provide its own multi-billion euro financial aid plan to the troubled anglo-irish bank .
a spokesman for the eu 's economics commissioner also ruled out the risk of ireland 's problems precipitating a domino effect .
" there are no analogies to be made ; the irish case is very specific , " spokesman amadeu altafaj told reporters in brussels .
" the decisions concerning ireland are also meant to stop any possible tension and contagion to other economies , " he added .
the dublin rescue package - which could amount to as much as 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- - was agreed on sunday .
author : alison roberts , richard connor -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- portuguese government seals deal on austerity budget portugal 's minority socialist government has reached a deal with the country 's center-right opposition to introduce an austerity budget .
the agreement is seen as crucial step in averting political and financial chaos .
-lrb- 31.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic portugal could be the next candidate for financial aid -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- feedback are more countries likely to need help to reassure markets ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 23.11.2010 portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portugal is seen as a future candidate for help portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next . portuguese prime minister jose socrates said on monday that his country 's economy remained robust and that there was no need for lisbon to ask for a financial rescue package .
the comments came after ireland conceded in agreeing to apply for a financial bailout program from the european union and international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portuguese prime minister socrates welcomed the irish acceptance of help portugal is high on the list of possible future rescue package recipients .
however , socrates said that his country 's financial system was performing well and said that its level of public debt - expected to be 7.3 percent for 2010 - was in line with the eu average .
" there are no links between portugal and ireland , " said socrates .
" i 've heard a lot of talk of the imf .
the country does not have any need for aid . "
the prime minister said he hoped that the irish acceptance of a financial package , which follows that of greece earlier in the year , would reassure nervous lending markets .
" i hope that the fact that ireland has asked for european union funds will permit the situation on the markets to return to normal , because portugal is feeling the effects of contagion very much , " said socrates .
lisbon keen to stay in driving seat like the irish administration , which had been reluctant to seek assistance , portugal 's socialist government is keen to avoid the need for outside help and any resulting loss of sovereignty .
such a course of action could prove unpopular with the electorate , with many older voters remembering traumatic interventions by the imf in the 1970s and 1980s .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish rescue deal follows a bailout for greece earlier this year this led to public spending being slashed at a time when the welfare system was too insufficient to provide proper protection for those affected .
however , some believe that both the imf 's approach and the situation of a more developed portugal in 2010 mean that a bailout is not so unthinkable .
" i think the mood against the imf is changing slightly , " economist pedro lains told deutsche welle .
" you see people who are responsible - officials and those connected to the opposition social democratic party - now they are changing their discourse slightly : they 're saying it is not a drama , that if it comes maybe it 's necessary . "
the center-right social democrat opposition has said it will not vote against the state budget for 2011 .
included in the budget are plans to cut public sector salaries and narrow the deficit to 4.6 percent of gdp .
away from parliament , a general strike was planned for wednesday - the first in two decades to be called by both of portugal 's two main trade union federations .
spain also claims to be different in neighboring spain , another country viewed as likely to need help , prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero said there were differences with the irish situation .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland 's prime minister is facing elections after the budget is approved zapatero 's socialist party 's organizational secretary , marcelino iglesias , quoted the premier as saying that bank stress tests during the summer - to assess the preparedness of banks for another financial crisis - had shown that the spanish financial sector was strong .
dublin 's economic woes stem in large part from the necessity to provide its own multi-billion euro financial aid plan to the troubled anglo-irish bank .
a spokesman for the eu 's economics commissioner also ruled out the risk of ireland 's problems precipitating a domino effect .
" there are no analogies to be made ; the irish case is very specific , " spokesman amadeu altafaj told reporters in brussels .
" the decisions concerning ireland are also meant to stop any possible tension and contagion to other economies , " he added .
the dublin rescue package - which could amount to as much as 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- - was agreed on sunday .
author : alison roberts , richard connor -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- portuguese government seals deal on austerity budget portugal 's minority socialist government has reached a deal with the country 's center-right opposition to introduce an austerity budget .
the agreement is seen as crucial step in averting political and financial chaos .
-lrb- 31.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic portugal could be the next candidate for financial aid -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- feedback are more countries likely to need help to reassure markets ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 23.11.2010 portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portugal is seen as a future candidate for help portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next . portuguese prime minister jose socrates said on monday that his country 's economy remained robust and that there was no need for lisbon to ask for a financial rescue package .
the comments came after ireland conceded in agreeing to apply for a financial bailout program from the european union and international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portuguese prime minister socrates welcomed the irish acceptance of help portugal is high on the list of possible future rescue package recipients .
however , socrates said that his country 's financial system was performing well and said that its level of public debt - expected to be 7.3 percent for 2010 - was in line with the eu average .
" there are no links between portugal and ireland , " said socrates .
" i 've heard a lot of talk of the imf .
the country does not have any need for aid . "
the prime minister said he hoped that the irish acceptance of a financial package , which follows that of greece earlier in the year , would reassure nervous lending markets .
" i hope that the fact that ireland has asked for european union funds will permit the situation on the markets to return to normal , because portugal is feeling the effects of contagion very much , " said socrates .
lisbon keen to stay in driving seat like the irish administration , which had been reluctant to seek assistance , portugal 's socialist government is keen to avoid the need for outside help and any resulting loss of sovereignty .
such a course of action could prove unpopular with the electorate , with many older voters remembering traumatic interventions by the imf in the 1970s and 1980s .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish rescue deal follows a bailout for greece earlier this year this led to public spending being slashed at a time when the welfare system was too insufficient to provide proper protection for those affected .
however , some believe that both the imf 's approach and the situation of a more developed portugal in 2010 mean that a bailout is not so unthinkable .
" i think the mood against the imf is changing slightly , " economist pedro lains told deutsche welle .
" you see people who are responsible - officials and those connected to the opposition social democratic party - now they are changing their discourse slightly : they 're saying it is not a drama , that if it comes maybe it 's necessary . "
the center-right social democrat opposition has said it will not vote against the state budget for 2011 .
included in the budget are plans to cut public sector salaries and narrow the deficit to 4.6 percent of gdp .
away from parliament , a general strike was planned for wednesday - the first in two decades to be called by both of portugal 's two main trade union federations .
spain also claims to be different in neighboring spain , another country viewed as likely to need help , prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero said there were differences with the irish situation .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland 's prime minister is facing elections after the budget is approved zapatero 's socialist party 's organizational secretary , marcelino iglesias , quoted the premier as saying that bank stress tests during the summer - to assess the preparedness of banks for another financial crisis - had shown that the spanish financial sector was strong .
dublin 's economic woes stem in large part from the necessity to provide its own multi-billion euro financial aid plan to the troubled anglo-irish bank .
a spokesman for the eu 's economics commissioner also ruled out the risk of ireland 's problems precipitating a domino effect .
" there are no analogies to be made ; the irish case is very specific , " spokesman amadeu altafaj told reporters in brussels .
" the decisions concerning ireland are also meant to stop any possible tension and contagion to other economies , " he added .
the dublin rescue package - which could amount to as much as 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- - was agreed on sunday .
author : alison roberts , richard connor -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- portuguese government seals deal on austerity budget portugal 's minority socialist government has reached a deal with the country 's center-right opposition to introduce an austerity budget .
the agreement is seen as crucial step in averting political and financial chaos .
-lrb- 31.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic portugal could be the next candidate for financial aid -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : the latest from ermany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 23.11.2010 portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portugal is seen as a future candidate for help portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next . portuguese prime minister jose socrates said on monday that his country 's economy remained robust and that there was no need for lisbon to ask for a financial rescue package .
the comments came after ireland conceded in agreeing to apply for a financial bailout program from the european union and international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portuguese prime minister socrates welcomed the irish acceptance of help portugal is high on the list of possible future rescue package recipients .
however , socrates said that his country 's financial system was performing well and said that its level of public debt - expected to be 7.3 percent for 2010 - was in line with the eu average .
" there are no links between portugal and ireland , " said socrates .
" i 've heard a lot of talk of the imf .
the country does not have any need for aid . "
the prime minister said he hoped that the irish acceptance of a financial package , which follows that of greece earlier in the year , would reassure nervous lending markets .
" i hope that the fact that ireland has asked for european union funds will permit the situation on the markets to return to normal , because portugal is feeling the effects of contagion very much , " said socrates .
lisbon keen to stay in driving seat like the irish administration , which had been reluctant to seek assistance , portugal 's socialist government is keen to avoid the need for outside help and any resulting loss of sovereignty .
such a course of action could prove unpopular with the electorate , with many older voters remembering traumatic interventions by the imf in the 1970s and 1980s .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish rescue deal follows a bailout for greece earlier this year this led to public spending being slashed at a time when the welfare system was too insufficient to provide proper protection for those affected .
however , some believe that both the imf 's approach and the situation of a more developed portugal in 2010 mean that a bailout is not so unthinkable .
" i think the mood against the imf is changing slightly , " economist pedro lains told deutsche welle .
" you see people who are responsible - officials and those connected to the opposition social democratic party - now they are changing their discourse slightly : they 're saying it is not a drama , that if it comes maybe it 's necessary . "
the center-right social democrat opposition has said it will not vote against the state budget for 2011 .
included in the budget are plans to cut public sector salaries and narrow the deficit to 4.6 percent of gdp .
away from parliament , a general strike was planned for wednesday - the first in two decades to be called by both of portugal 's two main trade union federations .
spain also claims to be different in neighboring spain , another country viewed as likely to need help , prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero said there were differences with the irish situation .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland 's prime minister is facing elections after the budget is approved zapatero 's socialist party 's organizational secretary , marcelino iglesias , quoted the premier as saying that bank stress tests during the summer - to assess the preparedness of banks for another financial crisis - had shown that the spanish financial sector was strong .
dublin 's economic woes stem in large part from the necessity to provide its own multi-billion euro financial aid plan to the troubled anglo-irish bank .
a spokesman for the eu 's economics commissioner also ruled out the risk of ireland 's problems precipitating a domino effect .
" there are no analogies to be made ; the irish case is very specific , " spokesman amadeu altafaj told reporters in brussels .
" the decisions concerning ireland are also meant to stop any possible tension and contagion to other economies , " he added .
the dublin rescue package - which could amount to as much as 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- - was agreed on sunday .
author : alison roberts , richard connor -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- portuguese government seals deal on austerity budget portugal 's minority socialist government has reached a deal with the country 's center-right opposition to introduce an austerity budget .
the agreement is seen as crucial step in averting political and financial chaos .
-lrb- 31.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic portugal could be the next candidate for financial aid -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live germany today we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
spain deutsche welle takes a closer look at the protesters camped out in central madrid .
watch the video poland poles protest the visit by a representative of the germans expelled from poland .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
senior policeman charged over germany-bound hoax bomb -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 23.11.2010 senior policeman charged over germany-bound hoax bomb großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police in germany are on high alert for terrorism a senior namibian police officer has been charged with the planting of a fake bomb amid luggage bound for germany .
berlin denies involvement in a security operation , reports say . a high-ranking airport police officer was charged on monday over the planting of a fake bomb in luggage on its way from namibia to germany .
the 51-year-old man was charged at a magistrates ' court in the namibian capital of windhoek with breaking airport and explosive laws .
namibian police said the man had worked for airport security for at least five years , and that there was no apparent motive for the planting of the fake device .
german news agency dpa said that berlin 's ambassador in windhoek , egon kochanke , had denied reports that a security exercise at the airport involving germany had played a role in the incident .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fake device was found in a screening area at the airport " there was no such thing as a german security exercise with a dummy luggage bomb , " kochanke said .
claims of german involvement in exercise a namibian newspaper had earlier reported that an unnamed cabinet member from the country had complained that germany 's involvement had been " reckless and irresponsible . "
the claim that german authorities were involved had also been denied by the namibian government .
the device was found in a luggage screening area at windhoek 's hosea kutako airport and led to the delay of an air berlin flight to munich . an x-ray investigation had revealed a detonator wired to batteries was present , along with a clock - but no explosive material was found .
germany is currently on alert , with warnings of heightened terrorism threats .
public access to the reichstag , germany 's parliament building , was restricted on monday after weekend reports that islamist militants had plans to attack the berlin landmark .
author : richard connor -lrb- dpa , ap -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de does germany need color-coded security ?
experts disagree on the merits of terror alert levels as germany steps up security over concerns of a possible islamist attack .
the country does not have a warning system like those in the uk and the us .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warn that some dangers are being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- suspect package in namibia was a ' dummy , ' says interior minister the suspicious package found at a namibian airport en route to munich was a " dummy , " according to the german interior minister thomas de maiziere .
investigations have begun to find out who bought and planted the case .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
senior policeman charged over germany-bound hoax bomb -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 23.11.2010 senior policeman charged over germany-bound hoax bomb großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police in germany are on high alert for terrorism a senior namibian police officer has been charged with the planting of a fake bomb amid luggage bound for germany .
berlin denies involvement in a security operation , reports say . a high-ranking airport police officer was charged on monday over the planting of a fake bomb in luggage on its way from namibia to germany .
the 51-year-old man was charged at a magistrates ' court in the namibian capital of windhoek with breaking airport and explosive laws .
namibian police said the man had worked for airport security for at least five years , and that there was no apparent motive for the planting of the fake device .
german news agency dpa said that berlin 's ambassador in windhoek , egon kochanke , had denied reports that a security exercise at the airport involving germany had played a role in the incident .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fake device was found in a screening area at the airport " there was no such thing as a german security exercise with a dummy luggage bomb , " kochanke said .
claims of german involvement in exercise a namibian newspaper had earlier reported that an unnamed cabinet member from the country had complained that germany 's involvement had been " reckless and irresponsible . "
the claim that german authorities were involved had also been denied by the namibian government .
the device was found in a luggage screening area at windhoek 's hosea kutako airport and led to the delay of an air berlin flight to munich . an x-ray investigation had revealed a detonator wired to batteries was present , along with a clock - but no explosive material was found .
germany is currently on alert , with warnings of heightened terrorism threats .
public access to the reichstag , germany 's parliament building , was restricted on monday after weekend reports that islamist militants had plans to attack the berlin landmark .
author : richard connor -lrb- dpa , ap -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de does germany need color-coded security ?
experts disagree on the merits of terror alert levels as germany steps up security over concerns of a possible islamist attack .
the country does not have a warning system like those in the uk and the us .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warn that some dangers are being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- suspect package in namibia was a ' dummy , ' says interior minister the suspicious package found at a namibian airport en route to munich was a " dummy , " according to the german interior minister thomas de maiziere .
investigations have begun to find out who bought and planted the case .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
animals wild boars with hearty appetites are proving problematic in berlin , where food is plentiful .
listen to the audio feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
senior policeman charged over germany-bound hoax bomb -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 23.11.2010 senior policeman charged over germany-bound hoax bomb großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police in germany are on high alert for terrorism a senior namibian police officer has been charged with the planting of a fake bomb amid luggage bound for germany .
berlin denies involvement in a security operation , reports say . a high-ranking airport police officer was charged on monday over the planting of a fake bomb in luggage on its way from namibia to germany .
the 51-year-old man was charged at a magistrates ' court in the namibian capital of windhoek with breaking airport and explosive laws .
namibian police said the man had worked for airport security for at least five years , and that there was no apparent motive for the planting of the fake device .
german news agency dpa said that berlin 's ambassador in windhoek , egon kochanke , had denied reports that a security exercise at the airport involving germany had played a role in the incident .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fake device was found in a screening area at the airport " there was no such thing as a german security exercise with a dummy luggage bomb , " kochanke said .
claims of german involvement in exercise a namibian newspaper had earlier reported that an unnamed cabinet member from the country had complained that germany 's involvement had been " reckless and irresponsible . "
the claim that german authorities were involved had also been denied by the namibian government .
the device was found in a luggage screening area at windhoek 's hosea kutako airport and led to the delay of an air berlin flight to munich . an x-ray investigation had revealed a detonator wired to batteries was present , along with a clock - but no explosive material was found .
germany is currently on alert , with warnings of heightened terrorism threats .
public access to the reichstag , germany 's parliament building , was restricted on monday after weekend reports that islamist militants had plans to attack the berlin landmark .
author : richard connor -lrb- dpa , ap -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de does germany need color-coded security ?
experts disagree on the merits of terror alert levels as germany steps up security over concerns of a possible islamist attack .
the country does not have a warning system like those in the uk and the us .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warn that some dangers are being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- suspect package in namibia was a ' dummy , ' says interior minister the suspicious package found at a namibian airport en route to munich was a " dummy , " according to the german interior minister thomas de maiziere .
investigations have begun to find out who bought and planted the case .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- feedback is the threat of terrorism being exaggerated at present ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
senior policeman charged over germany-bound hoax bomb -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 23.11.2010 senior policeman charged over germany-bound hoax bomb großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police in germany are on high alert for terrorism a senior namibian police officer has been charged with the planting of a fake bomb amid luggage bound for germany .
berlin denies involvement in a security operation , reports say . a high-ranking airport police officer was charged on monday over the planting of a fake bomb in luggage on its way from namibia to germany .
the 51-year-old man was charged at a magistrates ' court in the namibian capital of windhoek with breaking airport and explosive laws .
namibian police said the man had worked for airport security for at least five years , and that there was no apparent motive for the planting of the fake device .
german news agency dpa said that berlin 's ambassador in windhoek , egon kochanke , had denied reports that a security exercise at the airport involving germany had played a role in the incident .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fake device was found in a screening area at the airport " there was no such thing as a german security exercise with a dummy luggage bomb , " kochanke said .
claims of german involvement in exercise a namibian newspaper had earlier reported that an unnamed cabinet member from the country had complained that germany 's involvement had been " reckless and irresponsible . "
the claim that german authorities were involved had also been denied by the namibian government .
the device was found in a luggage screening area at windhoek 's hosea kutako airport and led to the delay of an air berlin flight to munich . an x-ray investigation had revealed a detonator wired to batteries was present , along with a clock - but no explosive material was found .
germany is currently on alert , with warnings of heightened terrorism threats .
public access to the reichstag , germany 's parliament building , was restricted on monday after weekend reports that islamist militants had plans to attack the berlin landmark .
author : richard connor -lrb- dpa , ap -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de does germany need color-coded security ?
experts disagree on the merits of terror alert levels as germany steps up security over concerns of a possible islamist attack .
the country does not have a warning system like those in the uk and the us .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warn that some dangers are being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- suspect package in namibia was a ' dummy , ' says interior minister the suspicious package found at a namibian airport en route to munich was a " dummy , " according to the german interior minister thomas de maiziere .
investigations have begun to find out who bought and planted the case .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- feedback is the threat of terrorism being exaggerated at present ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live - we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : the latest from the german top 100 ... and more !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german widower goes to court over assisted suicide -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 23.11.2010 german widower goes to court over assisted suicide großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : euthanasia is a sensitive issue in germany due to the nazi era a 67-year-old widower has sued germany in the european court of human rights to overturn a ban on active assisted suicide .
the man took his paraplegic wife to switzerland because she wanted to end her life . the european court of human rights in strasbourg began hearing the case of ulrich koch vs. germany on tuesday .
a court brief said the case concerned the german authorities ' refusal to grant his late wife authorization to acquire a lethal dose of medication enabling her to commit voluntary , assisted suicide .
after falling in front of her house in 2002 , koch 's wife was paralyzed from the neck down and required artificial ventilation and constant care from nursing staff .
koch said his wife thereafter " suffered from terrible spasms " and even had trouble " sitting in a wheelchair . "
because she was paralyzed , she appealed for active help to end her life .
in november , 2004 , she made a request to germany 's federal institute for drugs and medical devices to grant her authorization to obtain the medication necessary to commit suicide , but the institute refused , arguing that her wish contravened the german narcotics act . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the european court could force germany to change the law couple forced to go abroad the couple appealed the decision , and in the meantime went ahead with their own plans to let the woman die outside of germany .
on february 12 , 2005 , she committed suicide in switzerland , assisted by the organization , dignitas , which helps people seeking a dignified way to die .
koch 's posthumous legal challenge in germany on behalf of his wife was dismissed by two courts , including the federal constitutional court in november 2008 .
later , in 2010 , another german court did rule that " passive " assisted suicide was legal .
this essentially means that in germany voluntary starvation or dying of thirst on your own is legal , but any active assistance from others is not .
the european court of human rights must now decide whether the german law banning " active " assisted suicide infringes on a person 's right to privacy and a dignified death , as stipulated by article 8 of the german constitution .
if the court rules in the plaintiff 's favor , it could have far-reaching consequences for the growing tide of support across europe for assisted suicides .
author : gregg benzow editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german court rules in favor of passive assisted suicide germany 's federal court of justice has ruled that assisted suicide is legal in certain cases .
the ruling is based on a case involving a terminally-ill coma patient whose daughter attempted to cut her feeding tube .
-lrb- 25.06.2010 -rrb- dutch groups want to expand assisted suicide rights assisted suicide is tolerated in the netherlands , under certain conditions .
but right-to-die advocates in the country think the law should be expanded to cover healthy elderly people who consider their lives " complete . " -lrb- 28.05.2010 -rrb- switzerland considers limiting euthanasia to stop ' suicide tourism ' the swiss government has unveiled proposals to tighten the country 's laws on assisted suicide in an effort to limit what has become known as " suicide tourism . "
the country remains deeply divided over the issue .
-lrb- 30.10.2009 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour early music days in regensburg -lrb- 1 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german widower goes to court over assisted suicide -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 23.11.2010 german widower goes to court over assisted suicide großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : euthanasia is a sensitive issue in germany due to the nazi era a 67-year-old widower has sued germany in the european court of human rights to overturn a ban on active assisted suicide .
the man took his paraplegic wife to switzerland because she wanted to end her life . the european court of human rights in strasbourg began hearing the case of ulrich koch vs. germany on tuesday .
a court brief said the case concerned the german authorities ' refusal to grant his late wife authorization to acquire a lethal dose of medication enabling her to commit voluntary , assisted suicide .
after falling in front of her house in 2002 , koch 's wife was paralyzed from the neck down and required artificial ventilation and constant care from nursing staff .
koch said his wife thereafter " suffered from terrible spasms " and even had trouble " sitting in a wheelchair . "
because she was paralyzed , she appealed for active help to end her life .
in november , 2004 , she made a request to germany 's federal institute for drugs and medical devices to grant her authorization to obtain the medication necessary to commit suicide , but the institute refused , arguing that her wish contravened the german narcotics act . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the european court could force germany to change the law couple forced to go abroad the couple appealed the decision , and in the meantime went ahead with their own plans to let the woman die outside of germany .
on february 12 , 2005 , she committed suicide in switzerland , assisted by the organization , dignitas , which helps people seeking a dignified way to die .
koch 's posthumous legal challenge in germany on behalf of his wife was dismissed by two courts , including the federal constitutional court in november 2008 .
later , in 2010 , another german court did rule that " passive " assisted suicide was legal .
this essentially means that in germany voluntary starvation or dying of thirst on your own is legal , but any active assistance from others is not .
the european court of human rights must now decide whether the german law banning " active " assisted suicide infringes on a person 's right to privacy and a dignified death , as stipulated by article 8 of the german constitution .
if the court rules in the plaintiff 's favor , it could have far-reaching consequences for the growing tide of support across europe for assisted suicides .
author : gregg benzow editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german court rules in favor of passive assisted suicide germany 's federal court of justice has ruled that assisted suicide is legal in certain cases .
the ruling is based on a case involving a terminally-ill coma patient whose daughter attempted to cut her feeding tube .
-lrb- 25.06.2010 -rrb- dutch groups want to expand assisted suicide rights assisted suicide is tolerated in the netherlands , under certain conditions .
but right-to-die advocates in the country think the law should be expanded to cover healthy elderly people who consider their lives " complete . " -lrb- 28.05.2010 -rrb- switzerland considers limiting euthanasia to stop ' suicide tourism ' the swiss government has unveiled proposals to tighten the country 's laws on assisted suicide in an effort to limit what has become known as " suicide tourism . "
the country remains deeply divided over the issue .
-lrb- 30.10.2009 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
animals wild boars with hearty appetites are proving problematic in berlin , where food is plentiful .
listen to the audio feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german widower goes to court over assisted suicide -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 23.11.2010 german widower goes to court over assisted suicide großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : euthanasia is a sensitive issue in germany due to the nazi era a 67-year-old widower has sued germany in the european court of human rights to overturn a ban on active assisted suicide .
the man took his paraplegic wife to switzerland because she wanted to end her life . the european court of human rights in strasbourg began hearing the case of ulrich koch vs. germany on tuesday .
a court brief said the case concerned the german authorities ' refusal to grant his late wife authorization to acquire a lethal dose of medication enabling her to commit voluntary , assisted suicide .
after falling in front of her house in 2002 , koch 's wife was paralyzed from the neck down and required artificial ventilation and constant care from nursing staff .
koch said his wife thereafter " suffered from terrible spasms " and even had trouble " sitting in a wheelchair . "
because she was paralyzed , she appealed for active help to end her life .
in november , 2004 , she made a request to germany 's federal institute for drugs and medical devices to grant her authorization to obtain the medication necessary to commit suicide , but the institute refused , arguing that her wish contravened the german narcotics act . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the european court could force germany to change the law couple forced to go abroad the couple appealed the decision , and in the meantime went ahead with their own plans to let the woman die outside of germany .
on february 12 , 2005 , she committed suicide in switzerland , assisted by the organization , dignitas , which helps people seeking a dignified way to die .
koch 's posthumous legal challenge in germany on behalf of his wife was dismissed by two courts , including the federal constitutional court in november 2008 .
later , in 2010 , another german court did rule that " passive " assisted suicide was legal .
this essentially means that in germany voluntary starvation or dying of thirst on your own is legal , but any active assistance from others is not .
the european court of human rights must now decide whether the german law banning " active " assisted suicide infringes on a person 's right to privacy and a dignified death , as stipulated by article 8 of the german constitution .
if the court rules in the plaintiff 's favor , it could have far-reaching consequences for the growing tide of support across europe for assisted suicides .
author : gregg benzow editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german court rules in favor of passive assisted suicide germany 's federal court of justice has ruled that assisted suicide is legal in certain cases .
the ruling is based on a case involving a terminally-ill coma patient whose daughter attempted to cut her feeding tube .
-lrb- 25.06.2010 -rrb- dutch groups want to expand assisted suicide rights assisted suicide is tolerated in the netherlands , under certain conditions .
but right-to-die advocates in the country think the law should be expanded to cover healthy elderly people who consider their lives " complete . " -lrb- 28.05.2010 -rrb- switzerland considers limiting euthanasia to stop ' suicide tourism ' the swiss government has unveiled proposals to tighten the country 's laws on assisted suicide in an effort to limit what has become known as " suicide tourism . "
the country remains deeply divided over the issue .
-lrb- 30.10.2009 -rrb- feedback do you approve or disapprove of assisted suicide , and why ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german widower goes to court over assisted suicide -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 23.11.2010 german widower goes to court over assisted suicide großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : euthanasia is a sensitive issue in germany due to the nazi era a 67-year-old widower has sued germany in the european court of human rights to overturn a ban on active assisted suicide .
the man took his paraplegic wife to switzerland because she wanted to end her life . the european court of human rights in strasbourg began hearing the case of ulrich koch vs. germany on tuesday .
a court brief said the case concerned the german authorities ' refusal to grant his late wife authorization to acquire a lethal dose of medication enabling her to commit voluntary , assisted suicide .
after falling in front of her house in 2002 , koch 's wife was paralyzed from the neck down and required artificial ventilation and constant care from nursing staff .
koch said his wife thereafter " suffered from terrible spasms " and even had trouble " sitting in a wheelchair . "
because she was paralyzed , she appealed for active help to end her life .
in november , 2004 , she made a request to germany 's federal institute for drugs and medical devices to grant her authorization to obtain the medication necessary to commit suicide , but the institute refused , arguing that her wish contravened the german narcotics act . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the european court could force germany to change the law couple forced to go abroad the couple appealed the decision , and in the meantime went ahead with their own plans to let the woman die outside of germany .
on february 12 , 2005 , she committed suicide in switzerland , assisted by the organization , dignitas , which helps people seeking a dignified way to die .
koch 's posthumous legal challenge in germany on behalf of his wife was dismissed by two courts , including the federal constitutional court in november 2008 .
later , in 2010 , another german court did rule that " passive " assisted suicide was legal .
this essentially means that in germany voluntary starvation or dying of thirst on your own is legal , but any active assistance from others is not .
the european court of human rights must now decide whether the german law banning " active " assisted suicide infringes on a person 's right to privacy and a dignified death , as stipulated by article 8 of the german constitution .
if the court rules in the plaintiff 's favor , it could have far-reaching consequences for the growing tide of support across europe for assisted suicides .
author : gregg benzow editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de german court rules in favor of passive assisted suicide germany 's federal court of justice has ruled that assisted suicide is legal in certain cases .
the ruling is based on a case involving a terminally-ill coma patient whose daughter attempted to cut her feeding tube .
-lrb- 25.06.2010 -rrb- dutch groups want to expand assisted suicide rights assisted suicide is tolerated in the netherlands , under certain conditions .
but right-to-die advocates in the country think the law should be expanded to cover healthy elderly people who consider their lives " complete . " -lrb- 28.05.2010 -rrb- switzerland considers limiting euthanasia to stop ' suicide tourism ' the swiss government has unveiled proposals to tighten the country 's laws on assisted suicide in an effort to limit what has become known as " suicide tourism . "
the country remains deeply divided over the issue .
-lrb- 30.10.2009 -rrb- feedback do you approve or disapprove of assisted suicide , and why ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour a musical rarity : " scenes from goethe 's ' faust " ' by robert schumann listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
north korea attacks south korean island -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de asia -pipe- 23.11.2010 north korea attacks south korean island großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the shelling set buildings on fire and lasted about an hour north korea has shelled the south korean border island of yeonpyeong , killing two marines and injuring several others , prompting international condemnation .
the north says the south fired on it first . south korean officials and media reports said on tuesday that north korean air force jets fired dozens of shells at the border island , setting buildings ablaze and injuring at least a dozen other people . south korean troops based on the island fired back , and the military was put on top alert , news agencies in the south reported . north korea , meanwhile , said the south had fired first ; seoul acknowledged it was conducting military operations close to the disputed maritime border between the two territories , but said it had been firing west , not north . a senior south korean defense ministry official , lee hong-ki , called the shelling " an intentional attack " and a " clear violation of the armistice " between the two countries . south korean president lee myung-bak said in response that his government was working to prevent the exchange of fire between the north and south .
however , he added that his country would retaliate should the north attack again . a defense ministry spokesman said that a class-a military alert for battle situations had been imposed immediately . major powers condemn the attack un secretary-general ban ki-moon described the attack as " one of the gravest incidents since the end of the korean war " and called for restraint by both sides . in the united states , the white house issued a statement " strongly condemning " the artillery attack and called on north korea " to halt its belligerent action . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german minister said the incident endangered peace german foreign minister guido westerwelle said he was " very worried about this newest development " and appealed for " moderation among the participants . " " this renewed provocation endangers peace in the region , " westerwelle said . japan , china and russia also voiced deep concern over the incident . japanese prime minister naoto kan said he had ordered his cabinet ministers to prepare for any eventuality . russia warned against an escalation of tensions and called the attack " unacceptable . "
in moscow , foreign minister sergei lavrov urged both sides to show restraint to prevent a wider conflict . " there is a colossal danger , which must be avoided , " lavrov warned , adding that " those who started this bear a huge responsibility . " bildunterschrift : yeonpyeong is in a sensitive border area of the yellow sea south korea 's ytn television said air force jets were scrambled , after what appeared to be one of the most serious border incidents since the 1950-53 war .
the two koreas are still technically at war , as that conflict ended only in a truce . local islanders were evacuated to safe areas , and the military and police were checking the number of casualties , ytn reported .
residents were also said to be fleeing the island by fishing boat . unconfirmed eyewitness reports said that fires caused by the shelling were now burning out of control and spreading . south korea 's unification ministry reportedly told ytn that it was considering evacuating its citizens in north korea , who work at the kaesong industrial park and mount kumgang resort . yeonpyeong island lies about three kilometers -lrb- 1.8 miles -rrb- south of the sea border and 120 kilometers west of seoul . the yellow sea border was the scene of deadly naval clashes in 1999 and 2002 , and the north 's alleged involvement in the sinking of a south korean ship there last november damaged already tense ties between the two neighbors . author : gabriel borrud , gregg benzow -lrb- ap , dpa , afp , reuters -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de north korea reportedly fires artillery barrage south korean military officials have said that the north fired 100 shells into waters near the disputed inter-korean sea border .
the incident comes after a south korea accused the north of detaining a fishing boat .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- south korean-us simulation attack drills anger pyongyang north korea has once again criticized joint military exercises conducted by the us and south korea .
the drills come as tension on the korean peninsula is high and speculation about the leadership in pyongyang is rife .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- us announces fresh sanctions against n. korea the us has announced new sanctions against north korea .
the measures are to target pyongyang 's weapons ' proliferation and the import of luxury goods .
-lrb- 21.07.2010 -rrb- north korea proliferation report raises international , regional stakes a leaked un document revealed to reporters in new york recently accuses north korea of defying existing sanctions on arms control and nuclear proliferation by exporting technology to iran , syria and burma .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic north korea shells south korea -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
north korea attacks south korean island -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de asia -pipe- 23.11.2010 north korea attacks south korean island großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the shelling set buildings on fire and lasted about an hour north korea has shelled the south korean border island of yeonpyeong , killing two marines and injuring several others , prompting international condemnation .
the north says the south fired on it first . south korean officials and media reports said on tuesday that north korean air force jets fired dozens of shells at the border island , setting buildings ablaze and injuring at least a dozen other people . south korean troops based on the island fired back , and the military was put on top alert , news agencies in the south reported . north korea , meanwhile , said the south had fired first ; seoul acknowledged it was conducting military operations close to the disputed maritime border between the two territories , but said it had been firing west , not north . a senior south korean defense ministry official , lee hong-ki , called the shelling " an intentional attack " and a " clear violation of the armistice " between the two countries . south korean president lee myung-bak said in response that his government was working to prevent the exchange of fire between the north and south .
however , he added that his country would retaliate should the north attack again . a defense ministry spokesman said that a class-a military alert for battle situations had been imposed immediately . major powers condemn the attack un secretary-general ban ki-moon described the attack as " one of the gravest incidents since the end of the korean war " and called for restraint by both sides . in the united states , the white house issued a statement " strongly condemning " the artillery attack and called on north korea " to halt its belligerent action . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german minister said the incident endangered peace german foreign minister guido westerwelle said he was " very worried about this newest development " and appealed for " moderation among the participants . " " this renewed provocation endangers peace in the region , " westerwelle said . japan , china and russia also voiced deep concern over the incident . japanese prime minister naoto kan said he had ordered his cabinet ministers to prepare for any eventuality . russia warned against an escalation of tensions and called the attack " unacceptable . "
in moscow , foreign minister sergei lavrov urged both sides to show restraint to prevent a wider conflict . " there is a colossal danger , which must be avoided , " lavrov warned , adding that " those who started this bear a huge responsibility . " bildunterschrift : yeonpyeong is in a sensitive border area of the yellow sea south korea 's ytn television said air force jets were scrambled , after what appeared to be one of the most serious border incidents since the 1950-53 war .
the two koreas are still technically at war , as that conflict ended only in a truce . local islanders were evacuated to safe areas , and the military and police were checking the number of casualties , ytn reported .
residents were also said to be fleeing the island by fishing boat . unconfirmed eyewitness reports said that fires caused by the shelling were now burning out of control and spreading . south korea 's unification ministry reportedly told ytn that it was considering evacuating its citizens in north korea , who work at the kaesong industrial park and mount kumgang resort . yeonpyeong island lies about three kilometers -lrb- 1.8 miles -rrb- south of the sea border and 120 kilometers west of seoul . the yellow sea border was the scene of deadly naval clashes in 1999 and 2002 , and the north 's alleged involvement in the sinking of a south korean ship there last november damaged already tense ties between the two neighbors . author : gabriel borrud , gregg benzow -lrb- ap , dpa , afp , reuters -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de north korea reportedly fires artillery barrage south korean military officials have said that the north fired 100 shells into waters near the disputed inter-korean sea border .
the incident comes after a south korea accused the north of detaining a fishing boat .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- south korean-us simulation attack drills anger pyongyang north korea has once again criticized joint military exercises conducted by the us and south korea .
the drills come as tension on the korean peninsula is high and speculation about the leadership in pyongyang is rife .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- us announces fresh sanctions against n. korea the us has announced new sanctions against north korea .
the measures are to target pyongyang 's weapons ' proliferation and the import of luxury goods .
-lrb- 21.07.2010 -rrb- north korea proliferation report raises international , regional stakes a leaked un document revealed to reporters in new york recently accuses north korea of defying existing sanctions on arms control and nuclear proliferation by exporting technology to iran , syria and burma .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic north korea shells south korea -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
podcast series kades , from one of nairobi 's largest slums , plays djb in shujaaz , a weekly radio show .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
north korea attacks south korean island -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de asia -pipe- 23.11.2010 north korea attacks south korean island großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the shelling set buildings on fire and lasted about an hour north korea has shelled the south korean border island of yeonpyeong , killing two marines and injuring several others , prompting international condemnation .
the north says the south fired on it first . south korean officials and media reports said on tuesday that north korean air force jets fired dozens of shells at the border island , setting buildings ablaze and injuring at least a dozen other people . south korean troops based on the island fired back , and the military was put on top alert , news agencies in the south reported . north korea , meanwhile , said the south had fired first ; seoul acknowledged it was conducting military operations close to the disputed maritime border between the two territories , but said it had been firing west , not north . a senior south korean defense ministry official , lee hong-ki , called the shelling " an intentional attack " and a " clear violation of the armistice " between the two countries . south korean president lee myung-bak said in response that his government was working to prevent the exchange of fire between the north and south .
however , he added that his country would retaliate should the north attack again . a defense ministry spokesman said that a class-a military alert for battle situations had been imposed immediately . major powers condemn the attack un secretary-general ban ki-moon described the attack as " one of the gravest incidents since the end of the korean war " and called for restraint by both sides . in the united states , the white house issued a statement " strongly condemning " the artillery attack and called on north korea " to halt its belligerent action . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german minister said the incident endangered peace german foreign minister guido westerwelle said he was " very worried about this newest development " and appealed for " moderation among the participants . " " this renewed provocation endangers peace in the region , " westerwelle said . japan , china and russia also voiced deep concern over the incident . japanese prime minister naoto kan said he had ordered his cabinet ministers to prepare for any eventuality . russia warned against an escalation of tensions and called the attack " unacceptable . "
in moscow , foreign minister sergei lavrov urged both sides to show restraint to prevent a wider conflict . " there is a colossal danger , which must be avoided , " lavrov warned , adding that " those who started this bear a huge responsibility . " bildunterschrift : yeonpyeong is in a sensitive border area of the yellow sea south korea 's ytn television said air force jets were scrambled , after what appeared to be one of the most serious border incidents since the 1950-53 war .
the two koreas are still technically at war , as that conflict ended only in a truce . local islanders were evacuated to safe areas , and the military and police were checking the number of casualties , ytn reported .
residents were also said to be fleeing the island by fishing boat . unconfirmed eyewitness reports said that fires caused by the shelling were now burning out of control and spreading . south korea 's unification ministry reportedly told ytn that it was considering evacuating its citizens in north korea , who work at the kaesong industrial park and mount kumgang resort . yeonpyeong island lies about three kilometers -lrb- 1.8 miles -rrb- south of the sea border and 120 kilometers west of seoul . the yellow sea border was the scene of deadly naval clashes in 1999 and 2002 , and the north 's alleged involvement in the sinking of a south korean ship there last november damaged already tense ties between the two neighbors . author : gabriel borrud , gregg benzow -lrb- ap , dpa , afp , reuters -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de north korea reportedly fires artillery barrage south korean military officials have said that the north fired 100 shells into waters near the disputed inter-korean sea border .
the incident comes after a south korea accused the north of detaining a fishing boat .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- south korean-us simulation attack drills anger pyongyang north korea has once again criticized joint military exercises conducted by the us and south korea .
the drills come as tension on the korean peninsula is high and speculation about the leadership in pyongyang is rife .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- us announces fresh sanctions against n. korea the us has announced new sanctions against north korea .
the measures are to target pyongyang 's weapons ' proliferation and the import of luxury goods .
-lrb- 21.07.2010 -rrb- north korea proliferation report raises international , regional stakes a leaked un document revealed to reporters in new york recently accuses north korea of defying existing sanctions on arms control and nuclear proliferation by exporting technology to iran , syria and burma .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic north korea shells south korea -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- feedback why do you think north korea is taking such provocative actions ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
podcast series a 19-year-old single mom reaches out to fellow refugees at the kakuma camp in kenya .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
north korea attacks south korean island -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de asia -pipe- 23.11.2010 north korea attacks south korean island großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the shelling set buildings on fire and lasted about an hour north korea has shelled the south korean border island of yeonpyeong , killing two marines and injuring several others , prompting international condemnation .
the north says the south fired on it first . south korean officials and media reports said on tuesday that north korean air force jets fired dozens of shells at the border island , setting buildings ablaze and injuring at least a dozen other people . south korean troops based on the island fired back , and the military was put on top alert , news agencies in the south reported . north korea , meanwhile , said the south had fired first ; seoul acknowledged it was conducting military operations close to the disputed maritime border between the two territories , but said it had been firing west , not north . a senior south korean defense ministry official , lee hong-ki , called the shelling " an intentional attack " and a " clear violation of the armistice " between the two countries . south korean president lee myung-bak said in response that his government was working to prevent the exchange of fire between the north and south .
however , he added that his country would retaliate should the north attack again . a defense ministry spokesman said that a class-a military alert for battle situations had been imposed immediately . major powers condemn the attack un secretary-general ban ki-moon described the attack as " one of the gravest incidents since the end of the korean war " and called for restraint by both sides . in the united states , the white house issued a statement " strongly condemning " the artillery attack and called on north korea " to halt its belligerent action . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german minister said the incident endangered peace german foreign minister guido westerwelle said he was " very worried about this newest development " and appealed for " moderation among the participants . " " this renewed provocation endangers peace in the region , " westerwelle said . japan , china and russia also voiced deep concern over the incident . japanese prime minister naoto kan said he had ordered his cabinet ministers to prepare for any eventuality . russia warned against an escalation of tensions and called the attack " unacceptable . "
in moscow , foreign minister sergei lavrov urged both sides to show restraint to prevent a wider conflict . " there is a colossal danger , which must be avoided , " lavrov warned , adding that " those who started this bear a huge responsibility . " bildunterschrift : yeonpyeong is in a sensitive border area of the yellow sea south korea 's ytn television said air force jets were scrambled , after what appeared to be one of the most serious border incidents since the 1950-53 war .
the two koreas are still technically at war , as that conflict ended only in a truce . local islanders were evacuated to safe areas , and the military and police were checking the number of casualties , ytn reported .
residents were also said to be fleeing the island by fishing boat . unconfirmed eyewitness reports said that fires caused by the shelling were now burning out of control and spreading . south korea 's unification ministry reportedly told ytn that it was considering evacuating its citizens in north korea , who work at the kaesong industrial park and mount kumgang resort . yeonpyeong island lies about three kilometers -lrb- 1.8 miles -rrb- south of the sea border and 120 kilometers west of seoul . the yellow sea border was the scene of deadly naval clashes in 1999 and 2002 , and the north 's alleged involvement in the sinking of a south korean ship there last november damaged already tense ties between the two neighbors . author : gabriel borrud , gregg benzow -lrb- ap , dpa , afp , reuters -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de north korea reportedly fires artillery barrage south korean military officials have said that the north fired 100 shells into waters near the disputed inter-korean sea border .
the incident comes after a south korea accused the north of detaining a fishing boat .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- south korean-us simulation attack drills anger pyongyang north korea has once again criticized joint military exercises conducted by the us and south korea .
the drills come as tension on the korean peninsula is high and speculation about the leadership in pyongyang is rife .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- us announces fresh sanctions against n. korea the us has announced new sanctions against north korea .
the measures are to target pyongyang 's weapons ' proliferation and the import of luxury goods .
-lrb- 21.07.2010 -rrb- north korea proliferation report raises international , regional stakes a leaked un document revealed to reporters in new york recently accuses north korea of defying existing sanctions on arms control and nuclear proliferation by exporting technology to iran , syria and burma .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic north korea shells south korea -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- feedback why do you think north korea is taking such provocative actions ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
us-pakistan relations the new york times is reporting that the us is planning special operations in pakistan .
taliban expert ahmed rashid talks about the new york times report the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : non-oecd nations must not dam the rules -pipe- environment & development -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de development policy -pipe- 23.11.2010 opinion : non-oecd nations must not dam the rules großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the controversial three gorges dam in yichang , china , is the longest in the world dams are a divisive business .
but if the banks and firms that build them play by environment and resettlement rules , dams can bring crucial infrastructure to the developing world , argues commentator waltina scheumann . at the turn of the century , the world commission on dams published its report " dams and development - a new framework for decision-making " .
it was to be the decisive report , promising to bring an end to the protracted debate on the pros and cons of dams .
gone were the days , it seemed , that dams were on one side praised as the new temples -lrb- nehru -rrb- or the modern pyramids -lrb- nasser -rrb- , and on the other attacked as symbols of the dark side of modernization .
ten years on , though , dams around the world and especially in developing countries remain divisive .
the belo monte storage hydropower station in brazil has been subject to several technical redesigns , and the local environmental authority has laid down strict environmental standards for its construction .
yet these changes have done little to convince the environmentalists , small farmers and indian tribes living in the region , who have announced that they will violently resist the dam 's construction .
another well known case is the ilisu dam in south-east turkey , from which two international financial consortia withdrew because of the turkish government 's failure to satisfy the environmental and resettlement requirements in constructing the dam .
recently , dam projects in which chinese banks and firms are involved have come in for particular criticism because of lax environmental standards .
infrastructure for development brazil , china , india and turkey favor hydropower as energy sources and as part of strategies for climate change adaptation .
but it is the african countries that have most to gain from hydropower .
they are tapping only about 7 per cent of their technical potential -lrb- compared with 33 per cent in south america , 69 per cent in north america and 75 per cent in europe -rrb- .
because a fifth of african households are not connected to electricity and more than 30 countries in the african continent suffer from frequent power cuts , the african ministerial conference on hydropower , the ministerial conference on water for agriculture and energy in africa and the african union 's africa hydropower 2020 initiative have all agreed that hydropower must play a key role in africa 's development , if only because of limited reserves and rising prices of fossil energy sources throughout the world .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is the biggest financier of dam projects in africa china , too , has a role to play in hydropower development in the developing world : china has become the largest financier of dam projects in africa and is catching up in asia , and of the top ten international construction companies , five are now chinese .
while the chinese overseas construction firms operate primarily in africa and asia , their german counterparts concentrate on business through subsidiaries and holdings in the stable markets of the oecd countries .
unfair competition ?
representatives of the german construction industry say competition distortion accounts at least in part for china 's increasingly large slice of the international construction pie .
german firms , they say , are committed to oecd environmental standards , which chinese companies can ignore .
every german company seeking a hermes export credit guarantee must comply with the oecd standards .
in other words , an environmental impact assessment must be submitted with the application to the euler hermes insurance company .
this is not the case with the china exim bank or sinosure .
they base their environmental impact assessments on the host country 's environmental standards , which are often far less stringent than oecd standards .
in parts of the developing world , it seems that the oecd environmental standards are not the main reason for different levels of competitiveness .
studies in ghana and cambodia show that , rather , chinese firms base their calculations on low wage costs and narrow profit margins , chinese construction companies benefit from a fixed exchange rate , and loans are repaid with raw materials – cocoa for the bui dam in ghana , for example .
yet there is some evidence for claims that chinese-funded construction firms may be ignoring environmental standards : in cambodia , for instance , sinohydro has begun building a dam even though an environmental study has yet to be carried out .
the cambodian government has little control over the company , and environmental assessment procedures are explicitly kept weak so that investment permits can be issued quickly , especially in the energy sector .
this suits chinese companies , which do not take international standards as their guide .
in this way , any rivals from the oecd countries are excluded from international competition from the outset .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : waltina scheumann says germany should step up the dialogue with china donors still have leverage the world bank , the asian development bank and bilateral donors including germany are back to financing dams , but only if strict environmental and resettlement standards are observed .
they have adopted some of the recommendations of the world commission on dams and revised their standards .
dam projects that comply with international standards undoubtedly make projects more expensive - so china must be brought on board in the interests of fair competition .
bilateral agreements concluded by a country and an international company wanting to cover its risk with export credit guarantees are subject to the oecd standards and possibly the equator principles , a code of voluntary environmental standards applicable to international banks .
the china exim bank and sinosure are not committed to the oecd standards , since china is not a member of the oecd .
talks between the oecd and china will produce few results for as long as china only has observer status at the oecd .
china sees itself as a global player , one that is concerned with its reputation , and the same is true of the firms and banks mentioned earlier .
sooner or later china will have to adapt to international standards in its own interests .
to bring that time forward , the dialogue with china should be stepped up by the german government at a high political level .
not only in the interests of the german construction industry , but because dam projects all over the world will be rightly denounced by their opponents unless strict environmental and resettlement standards are observed in their construction .
this column reflects the opinions of the author .
dr waltina scheumann is a researcher at the environmental policy and management of natural resources department of the bonn-based think tank deutsches institut fuer entwicklungspolitik , the german development institute .
the german development institute is one of the leading think tanks for development policy worldwide .
the institute draws together the knowledge of development research available worldwide , dedicating its work to key issues facing the future of development policy .
the unique research profile of the institute is the result of the cooperation between research , consulting and professional training .
the institute is building bridges between theory and practice and works within international research networks .
author : waltina scheumann editor : sophie tarr send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de brazil in tricky balancing act to fight climate change the brazilian government has pledged to join international initiatives to combat climate change .
but at home , it 's struggling to juggle powerful business interests with efforts to protect its threatened rainforest .
-lrb- 15.06.2010 -rrb- controversial sudanese dam sparks human rights complaint a human rights advocacy organization has filed a criminal complaint against a german engineering firm over its involvement in the merowe dam project in northern sudan .
the company has denied all allegations .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- the technology behind water power hydro power works on a stunningly simple principle : water flowing through a dam turns a turbine , which drives a generator to produce electricity .
hydroelectric systems come in all sizes , from small plants to mega dams .
-lrb- 18.02.2010 -rrb- brazilian hydroelectric plans fan flames of conservation debate brazil 's environmental ministry has approved the construction of a massive dam on the xingu river .
the country can now open bidding on a contract to build it , but some environmentalists oppose the project fiercely .
-lrb- 05.02.2010 -rrb- feedback is it in chinese firms ' interests to adhere to oecd construction standards ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
climate change in-depth coverage of cancun and related environmental topics climate change environment listen to our weekly environment show or check out reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 02.12.10 -rrb- development listen to this week 's show for development reports from around the globe or check out back editions .
world in progress lf 081210 world in progress page global warming dw looks at angela merkel 's climate advisor joachim schellnhuber and his climate warnings .
watch the video .
health cheap , simple hygienic practices can protect millions from deadly , preventable diseases .
watch the report web documentary learn what rainforests do , and how they do it .
take an interactive journey to the jungle .
weblog ice blog climate news and views - check out the ice blog of dw 's environment correspondent , irene quaile . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : non-oecd nations must not dam the rules -pipe- environment & development -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de development policy -pipe- 23.11.2010 opinion : non-oecd nations must not dam the rules großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the controversial three gorges dam in yichang , china , is the longest in the world dams are a divisive business .
but if the banks and firms that build them play by environment and resettlement rules , dams can bring crucial infrastructure to the developing world , argues commentator waltina scheumann . at the turn of the century , the world commission on dams published its report " dams and development - a new framework for decision-making " .
it was to be the decisive report , promising to bring an end to the protracted debate on the pros and cons of dams .
gone were the days , it seemed , that dams were on one side praised as the new temples -lrb- nehru -rrb- or the modern pyramids -lrb- nasser -rrb- , and on the other attacked as symbols of the dark side of modernization .
ten years on , though , dams around the world and especially in developing countries remain divisive .
the belo monte storage hydropower station in brazil has been subject to several technical redesigns , and the local environmental authority has laid down strict environmental standards for its construction .
yet these changes have done little to convince the environmentalists , small farmers and indian tribes living in the region , who have announced that they will violently resist the dam 's construction .
another well known case is the ilisu dam in south-east turkey , from which two international financial consortia withdrew because of the turkish government 's failure to satisfy the environmental and resettlement requirements in constructing the dam .
recently , dam projects in which chinese banks and firms are involved have come in for particular criticism because of lax environmental standards .
infrastructure for development brazil , china , india and turkey favor hydropower as energy sources and as part of strategies for climate change adaptation .
but it is the african countries that have most to gain from hydropower .
they are tapping only about 7 per cent of their technical potential -lrb- compared with 33 per cent in south america , 69 per cent in north america and 75 per cent in europe -rrb- .
because a fifth of african households are not connected to electricity and more than 30 countries in the african continent suffer from frequent power cuts , the african ministerial conference on hydropower , the ministerial conference on water for agriculture and energy in africa and the african union 's africa hydropower 2020 initiative have all agreed that hydropower must play a key role in africa 's development , if only because of limited reserves and rising prices of fossil energy sources throughout the world .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is the biggest financier of dam projects in africa china , too , has a role to play in hydropower development in the developing world : china has become the largest financier of dam projects in africa and is catching up in asia , and of the top ten international construction companies , five are now chinese .
while the chinese overseas construction firms operate primarily in africa and asia , their german counterparts concentrate on business through subsidiaries and holdings in the stable markets of the oecd countries .
unfair competition ?
representatives of the german construction industry say competition distortion accounts at least in part for china 's increasingly large slice of the international construction pie .
german firms , they say , are committed to oecd environmental standards , which chinese companies can ignore .
every german company seeking a hermes export credit guarantee must comply with the oecd standards .
in other words , an environmental impact assessment must be submitted with the application to the euler hermes insurance company .
this is not the case with the china exim bank or sinosure .
they base their environmental impact assessments on the host country 's environmental standards , which are often far less stringent than oecd standards .
in parts of the developing world , it seems that the oecd environmental standards are not the main reason for different levels of competitiveness .
studies in ghana and cambodia show that , rather , chinese firms base their calculations on low wage costs and narrow profit margins , chinese construction companies benefit from a fixed exchange rate , and loans are repaid with raw materials – cocoa for the bui dam in ghana , for example .
yet there is some evidence for claims that chinese-funded construction firms may be ignoring environmental standards : in cambodia , for instance , sinohydro has begun building a dam even though an environmental study has yet to be carried out .
the cambodian government has little control over the company , and environmental assessment procedures are explicitly kept weak so that investment permits can be issued quickly , especially in the energy sector .
this suits chinese companies , which do not take international standards as their guide .
in this way , any rivals from the oecd countries are excluded from international competition from the outset .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : waltina scheumann says germany should step up the dialogue with china donors still have leverage the world bank , the asian development bank and bilateral donors including germany are back to financing dams , but only if strict environmental and resettlement standards are observed .
they have adopted some of the recommendations of the world commission on dams and revised their standards .
dam projects that comply with international standards undoubtedly make projects more expensive - so china must be brought on board in the interests of fair competition .
bilateral agreements concluded by a country and an international company wanting to cover its risk with export credit guarantees are subject to the oecd standards and possibly the equator principles , a code of voluntary environmental standards applicable to international banks .
the china exim bank and sinosure are not committed to the oecd standards , since china is not a member of the oecd .
talks between the oecd and china will produce few results for as long as china only has observer status at the oecd .
china sees itself as a global player , one that is concerned with its reputation , and the same is true of the firms and banks mentioned earlier .
sooner or later china will have to adapt to international standards in its own interests .
to bring that time forward , the dialogue with china should be stepped up by the german government at a high political level .
not only in the interests of the german construction industry , but because dam projects all over the world will be rightly denounced by their opponents unless strict environmental and resettlement standards are observed in their construction .
this column reflects the opinions of the author .
dr waltina scheumann is a researcher at the environmental policy and management of natural resources department of the bonn-based think tank deutsches institut fuer entwicklungspolitik , the german development institute .
the german development institute is one of the leading think tanks for development policy worldwide .
the institute draws together the knowledge of development research available worldwide , dedicating its work to key issues facing the future of development policy .
the unique research profile of the institute is the result of the cooperation between research , consulting and professional training .
the institute is building bridges between theory and practice and works within international research networks .
author : waltina scheumann editor : sophie tarr send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de brazil in tricky balancing act to fight climate change the brazilian government has pledged to join international initiatives to combat climate change .
but at home , it 's struggling to juggle powerful business interests with efforts to protect its threatened rainforest .
-lrb- 15.06.2010 -rrb- controversial sudanese dam sparks human rights complaint a human rights advocacy organization has filed a criminal complaint against a german engineering firm over its involvement in the merowe dam project in northern sudan .
the company has denied all allegations .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- the technology behind water power hydro power works on a stunningly simple principle : water flowing through a dam turns a turbine , which drives a generator to produce electricity .
hydroelectric systems come in all sizes , from small plants to mega dams .
-lrb- 18.02.2010 -rrb- brazilian hydroelectric plans fan flames of conservation debate brazil 's environmental ministry has approved the construction of a massive dam on the xingu river .
the country can now open bidding on a contract to build it , but some environmentalists oppose the project fiercely .
-lrb- 05.02.2010 -rrb- feedback is it in chinese firms ' interests to adhere to oecd construction standards ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 environment listen to our weekly show about the environment or check out reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 28.04.11 -rrb- the living planet page development listen to this week 's show for development reports from around the globe or check out back editions .
world in progress 27.4.11 world in progress page media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
micro-blog follow the feed get dw 's latest environment stories , and more , right away .
nuclear power readers wrote in to share what nuclear power policy is like in the countries where they live .
readers discuss nuclear policy at home map with international reader response web documentary learn what rainforests do , and how they do it .
take an interactive journey to the jungle © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
opinion : non-oecd nations must not dam the rules -pipe- environment & development -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de development policy -pipe- 23.11.2010 opinion : non-oecd nations must not dam the rules großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the controversial three gorges dam in yichang , china , is the longest in the world dams are a divisive business .
but if the banks and firms that build them play by environment and resettlement rules , dams can bring crucial infrastructure to the developing world , argues commentator waltina scheumann . at the turn of the century , the world commission on dams published its report " dams and development - a new framework for decision-making " .
it was to be the decisive report , promising to bring an end to the protracted debate on the pros and cons of dams .
gone were the days , it seemed , that dams were on one side praised as the new temples -lrb- nehru -rrb- or the modern pyramids -lrb- nasser -rrb- , and on the other attacked as symbols of the dark side of modernization .
ten years on , though , dams around the world and especially in developing countries remain divisive .
the belo monte storage hydropower station in brazil has been subject to several technical redesigns , and the local environmental authority has laid down strict environmental standards for its construction .
yet these changes have done little to convince the environmentalists , small farmers and indian tribes living in the region , who have announced that they will violently resist the dam 's construction .
another well known case is the ilisu dam in south-east turkey , from which two international financial consortia withdrew because of the turkish government 's failure to satisfy the environmental and resettlement requirements in constructing the dam .
recently , dam projects in which chinese banks and firms are involved have come in for particular criticism because of lax environmental standards .
infrastructure for development brazil , china , india and turkey favor hydropower as energy sources and as part of strategies for climate change adaptation .
but it is the african countries that have most to gain from hydropower .
they are tapping only about 7 per cent of their technical potential -lrb- compared with 33 per cent in south america , 69 per cent in north america and 75 per cent in europe -rrb- .
because a fifth of african households are not connected to electricity and more than 30 countries in the african continent suffer from frequent power cuts , the african ministerial conference on hydropower , the ministerial conference on water for agriculture and energy in africa and the african union 's africa hydropower 2020 initiative have all agreed that hydropower must play a key role in africa 's development , if only because of limited reserves and rising prices of fossil energy sources throughout the world .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : china is the biggest financier of dam projects in africa china , too , has a role to play in hydropower development in the developing world : china has become the largest financier of dam projects in africa and is catching up in asia , and of the top ten international construction companies , five are now chinese .
while the chinese overseas construction firms operate primarily in africa and asia , their german counterparts concentrate on business through subsidiaries and holdings in the stable markets of the oecd countries .
unfair competition ?
representatives of the german construction industry say competition distortion accounts at least in part for china 's increasingly large slice of the international construction pie .
german firms , they say , are committed to oecd environmental standards , which chinese companies can ignore .
every german company seeking a hermes export credit guarantee must comply with the oecd standards .
in other words , an environmental impact assessment must be submitted with the application to the euler hermes insurance company .
this is not the case with the china exim bank or sinosure .
they base their environmental impact assessments on the host country 's environmental standards , which are often far less stringent than oecd standards .
in parts of the developing world , it seems that the oecd environmental standards are not the main reason for different levels of competitiveness .
studies in ghana and cambodia show that , rather , chinese firms base their calculations on low wage costs and narrow profit margins , chinese construction companies benefit from a fixed exchange rate , and loans are repaid with raw materials – cocoa for the bui dam in ghana , for example .
yet there is some evidence for claims that chinese-funded construction firms may be ignoring environmental standards : in cambodia , for instance , sinohydro has begun building a dam even though an environmental study has yet to be carried out .
the cambodian government has little control over the company , and environmental assessment procedures are explicitly kept weak so that investment permits can be issued quickly , especially in the energy sector .
this suits chinese companies , which do not take international standards as their guide .
in this way , any rivals from the oecd countries are excluded from international competition from the outset .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : waltina scheumann says germany should step up the dialogue with china donors still have leverage the world bank , the asian development bank and bilateral donors including germany are back to financing dams , but only if strict environmental and resettlement standards are observed .
they have adopted some of the recommendations of the world commission on dams and revised their standards .
dam projects that comply with international standards undoubtedly make projects more expensive - so china must be brought on board in the interests of fair competition .
bilateral agreements concluded by a country and an international company wanting to cover its risk with export credit guarantees are subject to the oecd standards and possibly the equator principles , a code of voluntary environmental standards applicable to international banks .
the china exim bank and sinosure are not committed to the oecd standards , since china is not a member of the oecd .
talks between the oecd and china will produce few results for as long as china only has observer status at the oecd .
china sees itself as a global player , one that is concerned with its reputation , and the same is true of the firms and banks mentioned earlier .
sooner or later china will have to adapt to international standards in its own interests .
to bring that time forward , the dialogue with china should be stepped up by the german government at a high political level .
not only in the interests of the german construction industry , but because dam projects all over the world will be rightly denounced by their opponents unless strict environmental and resettlement standards are observed in their construction .
this column reflects the opinions of the author .
dr waltina scheumann is a researcher at the environmental policy and management of natural resources department of the bonn-based think tank deutsches institut fuer entwicklungspolitik , the german development institute .
the german development institute is one of the leading think tanks for development policy worldwide .
the institute draws together the knowledge of development research available worldwide , dedicating its work to key issues facing the future of development policy .
the unique research profile of the institute is the result of the cooperation between research , consulting and professional training .
the institute is building bridges between theory and practice and works within international research networks .
author : waltina scheumann editor : sophie tarr send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de brazil in tricky balancing act to fight climate change the brazilian government has pledged to join international initiatives to combat climate change .
but at home , it 's struggling to juggle powerful business interests with efforts to protect its threatened rainforest .
-lrb- 15.06.2010 -rrb- controversial sudanese dam sparks human rights complaint a human rights advocacy organization has filed a criminal complaint against a german engineering firm over its involvement in the merowe dam project in northern sudan .
the company has denied all allegations .
-lrb- 19.05.2010 -rrb- the technology behind water power hydro power works on a stunningly simple principle : water flowing through a dam turns a turbine , which drives a generator to produce electricity .
hydroelectric systems come in all sizes , from small plants to mega dams .
-lrb- 18.02.2010 -rrb- brazilian hydroelectric plans fan flames of conservation debate brazil 's environmental ministry has approved the construction of a massive dam on the xingu river .
the country can now open bidding on a contract to build it , but some environmentalists oppose the project fiercely .
-lrb- 05.02.2010 -rrb- 07 environment listen to our weekly show about the environment or check out reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 26.05.11 -rrb- the living planet page development listen to this week 's show for development reports from around the globe or check out back editions .
world in progress 01.06.11 world in progress page media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
micro-blog follow the feed get dw 's latest environment stories , and more , right away .
nuclear power readers wrote in to share what nuclear power policy is like in the countries where they live .
readers discuss nuclear policy at home map with international reader response web documentary learn what rainforests do , and how they do it .
take an interactive journey to the jungle © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
labor bottleneck squeezes german solar sector -pipe- environment & development -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 23.11.2010 labor bottleneck squeezes german solar sector großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in the solar industry , qualified employees are a scarce commodity jobs in renewable energies in germany have quadrupled since 2006 , but a stubborn lack of qualified employees remains .
immigration policy and a wariness of outsiders could hobble the industry before it hits full stride . as in many countries , renewable energy sources are playing an increasingly important role in germany .
thanks to a generous system of feed-in tariffs , they now account for 16.3 percent of the country 's electricity , according to the renewable energies agency .
indeed , germany has ambitions for the sector that go beyond its own borders .
the export-oriented economy is pinning its hopes on becoming a center of knowledge and innovation that will sell the know-how for clean technologies to the rest of the world .
and why not ?
demand for employees in the renewables sector is growing rapidly and consistently .
in the first quarter of 2010 , the monitoring agency wissenschaftsladen bonn counted 2,289 job openings – a fourfold increase on the 528 jobs listed in the same quarter of 2006 .
so far so good .
but there 's a daunting hurdle confronting germany 's clean economy dreams right now .
demand for skilled workers is outstripping supply .
what 's more , difficult immigration policies , a backlash against multiculturalism and concerns about industrial espionage are stifling what could be a potential solution to the problem – skilled foreign labor .
training not enough bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hans joachim moller says employees are needed at all levels of the industry vast , interlinked networks of manufacturing facilities and research institutions have sprung up around the solar industry of the eastern german state of saxony . some 14 percent of positions for qualified employees were left unfilled here during the first half of 2009 , according to a survey released in april by the institute for employment research .
at solarworld , in the city of freiberg , a highly advanced assembly line of robots – each performing a specialized function – manufactures solar cells .
the company is an international market leader that with facilities stretching around the world from the united states to asia .
speaking at solarworld 's freiberg facility , hans-joachim moller , a professor of experimental physics at the nearby technical university bergakadamie , said labor shortages in germany range from researchers and lab assistants through to technicians .
he wants to see more training programs , with narrower fields of focus tailored to the industry , but he concedes that this will only come at a cost to other sectors of the economy .
" of course that means those people will then be missing elsewhere ...
that is a problem which in my opinion can only be solved by getting people - scientists - from foreign countries .
otherwise it ca n't function , " he told deutsche welle .
just 50 kilometers away , the roth and rau company works on a different , but related process .
specializing in the hardware and technology needed to manufacture solar cells , roth and rau has some 800 employees and offers complete factory systems to their customers .
bernd rau , one of the company 's founders , says his company has explored partnerships with universities in saxony , but the search for skilled workers is becoming increasingly acute . " it is more and more difficult , especially for the it people , and also in engineering and mechanical engineering , " he told deutsche welle .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bernd rau says finding employees for his company has become more difficult language barrier there is a push to attract foreign workers , but it may not be enough .
of the 300 educational programs specialized in renewable energy nationwide , 25 are now taught in english .
that 's up from just seven in 2007 , according to wissenschaftsladen bonn .
and some areas of germany may have to try especially hard to be alluring to outsiders .
claudia kemfert , an energy market specialist at the german institute of economic research in berlin , says the german language is a particularly high hurdle when it comes to attracting foreign workers .
on the international market , it 's simply not very appealing .
to compensate , companies located in eastern germany in particular need to offer good salaries and incentives .
" germany has to do a lot in order to be attractive , both in salary terms and attractive jobs . "
yet kemfert also thinks that the renewables sector has a lot of potential to be attractive to foreigners " because these are jobs of the future and the market will increase drastically all over the world . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : feed in tariffs have made installing solar cells an attractive proposition wary of outsiders the trouble is the industry itself can be wary of outsiders , fearing industrial espionage .
when deutsche welle visited solarworld , photography was completely forbidden .
at and roth and rau it was restricted .
both companies have worldwide operations and lucrative , specialized knowledge to keep secret .
in fact , german companies in general fear losing the competitive edge that their knowledge affords them to foreign competitors .
a survey of security experts done by the german association for security in industry and commerce shows that 74 percent say their companies have knowledge which should be protected .
the survey covered 244 experts and indicates industrial espionage affects companies with operations outside of germany .
just one state to the west of saxony , heinrich metzner of the university of jena in thuringia says some of the international students who have studied photovoltaics at his institute of solid state physics have had to leave germany after completing their studies .
once their student visas expired , they were left with little choice but to return to their home countries and apply their knowledge there instead .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : competition from asia is a real concern for german companies built-in growth cap metzner does n't sympathize much with industry 's fears of spies .
he argues that excessive secrecy has little value in any globalized industry .
knowledge is bound to leak , even by legal means , he says .
" it is inevitable in the globalized economic space when you sell machines and facilities , because manufacturers have to guarantee that their products function properly , " he told deutsche welle .
" and so industry ca n't avoid that know-how will be passed on .
it appears that even as the fields of photovoltaic , and renewable energy in general , grow in leaps and bounds , they may increasingly find themselves limited in their options and struggling to operate within germany as qualified employees become more difficult to find .
immigration policies , protectionist attitudes and an unwillingness to accept foreign workers may well be hampering their efforts , and at the rate the industry is growing , it seems that a limited workforce will stunt the industry 's potential sooner rather than later .
author : gerhard schneibel editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iea predicts oil prices will more than double by 2035 the international energy agency has called for oil subsidies to be eradicated as it predicts that oil demand and prices will rise in the next 25 years , despite a push towards green energy .
-lrb- 09.11.2010 -rrb- german parliament passes law to extend use of nuclear power despite public protests and angry diatribes from the opposition , the german government on thursday took the first major hurdle in a parliamentary vote toward extending the lifespans of nuclear power plants .
-lrb- 28.10.2010 -rrb- smart grids play key role in modern energy infrastructure how do you ensure a steady supply of electricity from fickle renewable sources such as solar , wind and biomass ?
' smart grids ' that manage and distribute flows of electricity could be the answer .
-lrb- 06.09.2010 -rrb- german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- germany to cut subsidies for solar energy a law proposed by chancellor angela merkel 's government would greatly reduce subsidies for solar energy production , and in some cases eliminate them all together .
-lrb- 23.02.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think germany should demonstrate a more open attitude towards foreigners ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
climate change in-depth coverage of cancun and related environmental topics climate change environment listen to our weekly environment show or check out reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 02.12.10 -rrb- development listen to this week 's show for development reports from around the globe or check out back editions .
world in progress lf 081210 world in progress page global warming dw looks at angela merkel 's climate advisor joachim schellnhuber and his climate warnings .
watch the video .
health cheap , simple hygienic practices can protect millions from deadly , preventable diseases .
watch the report web documentary learn what rainforests do , and how they do it .
take an interactive journey to the jungle .
weblog ice blog climate news and views - check out the ice blog of dw 's environment correspondent , irene quaile . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
labor bottleneck squeezes german solar sector -pipe- environment & development -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 23.11.2010 labor bottleneck squeezes german solar sector großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in the solar industry , qualified employees are a scarce commodity jobs in renewable energies in germany have quadrupled since 2006 , but a stubborn lack of qualified employees remains .
immigration policy and a wariness of outsiders could hobble the industry before it hits full stride . as in many countries , renewable energy sources are playing an increasingly important role in germany .
thanks to a generous system of feed-in tariffs , they now account for 16.3 percent of the country 's electricity , according to the renewable energies agency .
indeed , germany has ambitions for the sector that go beyond its own borders .
the export-oriented economy is pinning its hopes on becoming a center of knowledge and innovation that will sell the know-how for clean technologies to the rest of the world .
and why not ?
demand for employees in the renewables sector is growing rapidly and consistently .
in the first quarter of 2010 , the monitoring agency wissenschaftsladen bonn counted 2,289 job openings – a fourfold increase on the 528 jobs listed in the same quarter of 2006 .
so far so good .
but there 's a daunting hurdle confronting germany 's clean economy dreams right now .
demand for skilled workers is outstripping supply .
what 's more , difficult immigration policies , a backlash against multiculturalism and concerns about industrial espionage are stifling what could be a potential solution to the problem – skilled foreign labor .
training not enough bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hans joachim moller says employees are needed at all levels of the industry vast , interlinked networks of manufacturing facilities and research institutions have sprung up around the solar industry of the eastern german state of saxony . some 14 percent of positions for qualified employees were left unfilled here during the first half of 2009 , according to a survey released in april by the institute for employment research .
at solarworld , in the city of freiberg , a highly advanced assembly line of robots – each performing a specialized function – manufactures solar cells .
the company is an international market leader that with facilities stretching around the world from the united states to asia .
speaking at solarworld 's freiberg facility , hans-joachim moller , a professor of experimental physics at the nearby technical university bergakadamie , said labor shortages in germany range from researchers and lab assistants through to technicians .
he wants to see more training programs , with narrower fields of focus tailored to the industry , but he concedes that this will only come at a cost to other sectors of the economy .
" of course that means those people will then be missing elsewhere ...
that is a problem which in my opinion can only be solved by getting people - scientists - from foreign countries .
otherwise it ca n't function , " he told deutsche welle .
just 50 kilometers away , the roth and rau company works on a different , but related process .
specializing in the hardware and technology needed to manufacture solar cells , roth and rau has some 800 employees and offers complete factory systems to their customers .
bernd rau , one of the company 's founders , says his company has explored partnerships with universities in saxony , but the search for skilled workers is becoming increasingly acute . " it is more and more difficult , especially for the it people , and also in engineering and mechanical engineering , " he told deutsche welle .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bernd rau says finding employees for his company has become more difficult language barrier there is a push to attract foreign workers , but it may not be enough .
of the 300 educational programs specialized in renewable energy nationwide , 25 are now taught in english .
that 's up from just seven in 2007 , according to wissenschaftsladen bonn .
and some areas of germany may have to try especially hard to be alluring to outsiders .
claudia kemfert , an energy market specialist at the german institute of economic research in berlin , says the german language is a particularly high hurdle when it comes to attracting foreign workers .
on the international market , it 's simply not very appealing .
to compensate , companies located in eastern germany in particular need to offer good salaries and incentives .
" germany has to do a lot in order to be attractive , both in salary terms and attractive jobs . "
yet kemfert also thinks that the renewables sector has a lot of potential to be attractive to foreigners " because these are jobs of the future and the market will increase drastically all over the world . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : feed in tariffs have made installing solar cells an attractive proposition wary of outsiders the trouble is the industry itself can be wary of outsiders , fearing industrial espionage .
when deutsche welle visited solarworld , photography was completely forbidden .
at and roth and rau it was restricted .
both companies have worldwide operations and lucrative , specialized knowledge to keep secret .
in fact , german companies in general fear losing the competitive edge that their knowledge affords them to foreign competitors .
a survey of security experts done by the german association for security in industry and commerce shows that 74 percent say their companies have knowledge which should be protected .
the survey covered 244 experts and indicates industrial espionage affects companies with operations outside of germany .
just one state to the west of saxony , heinrich metzner of the university of jena in thuringia says some of the international students who have studied photovoltaics at his institute of solid state physics have had to leave germany after completing their studies .
once their student visas expired , they were left with little choice but to return to their home countries and apply their knowledge there instead .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : competition from asia is a real concern for german companies built-in growth cap metzner does n't sympathize much with industry 's fears of spies .
he argues that excessive secrecy has little value in any globalized industry .
knowledge is bound to leak , even by legal means , he says .
" it is inevitable in the globalized economic space when you sell machines and facilities , because manufacturers have to guarantee that their products function properly , " he told deutsche welle .
" and so industry ca n't avoid that know-how will be passed on .
it appears that even as the fields of photovoltaic , and renewable energy in general , grow in leaps and bounds , they may increasingly find themselves limited in their options and struggling to operate within germany as qualified employees become more difficult to find .
immigration policies , protectionist attitudes and an unwillingness to accept foreign workers may well be hampering their efforts , and at the rate the industry is growing , it seems that a limited workforce will stunt the industry 's potential sooner rather than later .
author : gerhard schneibel editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iea predicts oil prices will more than double by 2035 the international energy agency has called for oil subsidies to be eradicated as it predicts that oil demand and prices will rise in the next 25 years , despite a push towards green energy .
-lrb- 09.11.2010 -rrb- german parliament passes law to extend use of nuclear power despite public protests and angry diatribes from the opposition , the german government on thursday took the first major hurdle in a parliamentary vote toward extending the lifespans of nuclear power plants .
-lrb- 28.10.2010 -rrb- smart grids play key role in modern energy infrastructure how do you ensure a steady supply of electricity from fickle renewable sources such as solar , wind and biomass ?
' smart grids ' that manage and distribute flows of electricity could be the answer .
-lrb- 06.09.2010 -rrb- german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- germany to cut subsidies for solar energy a law proposed by chancellor angela merkel 's government would greatly reduce subsidies for solar energy production , and in some cases eliminate them all together .
-lrb- 23.02.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think germany should demonstrate a more open attitude towards foreigners ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 environment listen to our weekly show about the environment or check out reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 28.04.11 -rrb- the living planet page development listen to this week 's show for development reports from around the globe or check out back editions .
world in progress 27.4.11 world in progress page media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
micro-blog follow the feed get dw 's latest environment stories , and more , right away .
nuclear power readers wrote in to share what nuclear power policy is like in the countries where they live .
readers discuss nuclear policy at home map with international reader response web documentary learn what rainforests do , and how they do it .
take an interactive journey to the jungle © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
labor bottleneck squeezes german solar sector -pipe- environment & development -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 23.11.2010 labor bottleneck squeezes german solar sector großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in the solar industry , qualified employees are a scarce commodity jobs in renewable energies in germany have quadrupled since 2006 , but a stubborn lack of qualified employees remains .
immigration policy and a wariness of outsiders could hobble the industry before it hits full stride . as in many countries , renewable energy sources are playing an increasingly important role in germany .
thanks to a generous system of feed-in tariffs , they now account for 16.3 percent of the country 's electricity , according to the renewable energies agency .
indeed , germany has ambitions for the sector that go beyond its own borders .
the export-oriented economy is pinning its hopes on becoming a center of knowledge and innovation that will sell the know-how for clean technologies to the rest of the world .
and why not ?
demand for employees in the renewables sector is growing rapidly and consistently .
in the first quarter of 2010 , the monitoring agency wissenschaftsladen bonn counted 2,289 job openings – a fourfold increase on the 528 jobs listed in the same quarter of 2006 .
so far so good .
but there 's a daunting hurdle confronting germany 's clean economy dreams right now .
demand for skilled workers is outstripping supply .
what 's more , difficult immigration policies , a backlash against multiculturalism and concerns about industrial espionage are stifling what could be a potential solution to the problem – skilled foreign labor .
training not enough bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hans joachim moller says employees are needed at all levels of the industry vast , interlinked networks of manufacturing facilities and research institutions have sprung up around the solar industry of the eastern german state of saxony . some 14 percent of positions for qualified employees were left unfilled here during the first half of 2009 , according to a survey released in april by the institute for employment research .
at solarworld , in the city of freiberg , a highly advanced assembly line of robots – each performing a specialized function – manufactures solar cells .
the company is an international market leader that with facilities stretching around the world from the united states to asia .
speaking at solarworld 's freiberg facility , hans-joachim moller , a professor of experimental physics at the nearby technical university bergakadamie , said labor shortages in germany range from researchers and lab assistants through to technicians .
he wants to see more training programs , with narrower fields of focus tailored to the industry , but he concedes that this will only come at a cost to other sectors of the economy .
" of course that means those people will then be missing elsewhere ...
that is a problem which in my opinion can only be solved by getting people - scientists - from foreign countries .
otherwise it ca n't function , " he told deutsche welle .
just 50 kilometers away , the roth and rau company works on a different , but related process .
specializing in the hardware and technology needed to manufacture solar cells , roth and rau has some 800 employees and offers complete factory systems to their customers .
bernd rau , one of the company 's founders , says his company has explored partnerships with universities in saxony , but the search for skilled workers is becoming increasingly acute . " it is more and more difficult , especially for the it people , and also in engineering and mechanical engineering , " he told deutsche welle .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bernd rau says finding employees for his company has become more difficult language barrier there is a push to attract foreign workers , but it may not be enough .
of the 300 educational programs specialized in renewable energy nationwide , 25 are now taught in english .
that 's up from just seven in 2007 , according to wissenschaftsladen bonn .
and some areas of germany may have to try especially hard to be alluring to outsiders .
claudia kemfert , an energy market specialist at the german institute of economic research in berlin , says the german language is a particularly high hurdle when it comes to attracting foreign workers .
on the international market , it 's simply not very appealing .
to compensate , companies located in eastern germany in particular need to offer good salaries and incentives .
" germany has to do a lot in order to be attractive , both in salary terms and attractive jobs . "
yet kemfert also thinks that the renewables sector has a lot of potential to be attractive to foreigners " because these are jobs of the future and the market will increase drastically all over the world . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : feed in tariffs have made installing solar cells an attractive proposition wary of outsiders the trouble is the industry itself can be wary of outsiders , fearing industrial espionage .
when deutsche welle visited solarworld , photography was completely forbidden .
at and roth and rau it was restricted .
both companies have worldwide operations and lucrative , specialized knowledge to keep secret .
in fact , german companies in general fear losing the competitive edge that their knowledge affords them to foreign competitors .
a survey of security experts done by the german association for security in industry and commerce shows that 74 percent say their companies have knowledge which should be protected .
the survey covered 244 experts and indicates industrial espionage affects companies with operations outside of germany .
just one state to the west of saxony , heinrich metzner of the university of jena in thuringia says some of the international students who have studied photovoltaics at his institute of solid state physics have had to leave germany after completing their studies .
once their student visas expired , they were left with little choice but to return to their home countries and apply their knowledge there instead .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : competition from asia is a real concern for german companies built-in growth cap metzner does n't sympathize much with industry 's fears of spies .
he argues that excessive secrecy has little value in any globalized industry .
knowledge is bound to leak , even by legal means , he says .
" it is inevitable in the globalized economic space when you sell machines and facilities , because manufacturers have to guarantee that their products function properly , " he told deutsche welle .
" and so industry ca n't avoid that know-how will be passed on .
it appears that even as the fields of photovoltaic , and renewable energy in general , grow in leaps and bounds , they may increasingly find themselves limited in their options and struggling to operate within germany as qualified employees become more difficult to find .
immigration policies , protectionist attitudes and an unwillingness to accept foreign workers may well be hampering their efforts , and at the rate the industry is growing , it seems that a limited workforce will stunt the industry 's potential sooner rather than later .
author : gerhard schneibel editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iea predicts oil prices will more than double by 2035 the international energy agency has called for oil subsidies to be eradicated as it predicts that oil demand and prices will rise in the next 25 years , despite a push towards green energy .
-lrb- 09.11.2010 -rrb- german parliament passes law to extend use of nuclear power despite public protests and angry diatribes from the opposition , the german government on thursday took the first major hurdle in a parliamentary vote toward extending the lifespans of nuclear power plants .
-lrb- 28.10.2010 -rrb- smart grids play key role in modern energy infrastructure how do you ensure a steady supply of electricity from fickle renewable sources such as solar , wind and biomass ?
' smart grids ' that manage and distribute flows of electricity could be the answer .
-lrb- 06.09.2010 -rrb- german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- germany to cut subsidies for solar energy a law proposed by chancellor angela merkel 's government would greatly reduce subsidies for solar energy production , and in some cases eliminate them all together .
-lrb- 23.02.2010 -rrb- 07 environment listen to our weekly show about the environment or check out reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 30.06.11 -rrb- the living planet page media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
development listen to this week 's show for development reports from around the globe or check out back editions .
listen to world in progress 29.06.11 world in progress page micro-blog follow the feed get dw 's latest environment stories , and more , right away .
nuclear power readers wrote in to share what nuclear power policy is like in the countries where they live .
readers discuss nuclear policy at home map with international reader response web documentary learn what rainforests do , and how they do it .
take an interactive journey to the jungle © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
labor bottleneck squeezes german solar sector -pipe- environment & development -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 23.11.2010 labor bottleneck squeezes german solar sector großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in the solar industry , qualified employees are a scarce commodity jobs in renewable energies in germany have quadrupled since 2006 , but a stubborn lack of qualified employees remains .
immigration policy and a wariness of outsiders could hobble the industry before it hits full stride . as in many countries , renewable energy sources are playing an increasingly important role in germany .
thanks to a generous system of feed-in tariffs , they now account for 16.3 percent of the country 's electricity , according to the renewable energies agency .
indeed , germany has ambitions for the sector that go beyond its own borders .
the export-oriented economy is pinning its hopes on becoming a center of knowledge and innovation that will sell the know-how for clean technologies to the rest of the world .
and why not ?
demand for employees in the renewables sector is growing rapidly and consistently .
in the first quarter of 2010 , the monitoring agency wissenschaftsladen bonn counted 2,289 job openings – a fourfold increase on the 528 jobs listed in the same quarter of 2006 .
so far so good .
but there 's a daunting hurdle confronting germany 's clean economy dreams right now .
demand for skilled workers is outstripping supply .
what 's more , difficult immigration policies , a backlash against multiculturalism and concerns about industrial espionage are stifling what could be a potential solution to the problem – skilled foreign labor .
training not enough bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hans joachim moller says employees are needed at all levels of the industry vast , interlinked networks of manufacturing facilities and research institutions have sprung up around the solar industry of the eastern german state of saxony . some 14 percent of positions for qualified employees were left unfilled here during the first half of 2009 , according to a survey released in april by the institute for employment research .
at solarworld , in the city of freiberg , a highly advanced assembly line of robots – each performing a specialized function – manufactures solar cells .
the company is an international market leader that with facilities stretching around the world from the united states to asia .
speaking at solarworld 's freiberg facility , hans-joachim moller , a professor of experimental physics at the nearby technical university bergakadamie , said labor shortages in germany range from researchers and lab assistants through to technicians .
he wants to see more training programs , with narrower fields of focus tailored to the industry , but he concedes that this will only come at a cost to other sectors of the economy .
" of course that means those people will then be missing elsewhere ...
that is a problem which in my opinion can only be solved by getting people - scientists - from foreign countries .
otherwise it ca n't function , " he told deutsche welle .
just 50 kilometers away , the roth and rau company works on a different , but related process .
specializing in the hardware and technology needed to manufacture solar cells , roth and rau has some 800 employees and offers complete factory systems to their customers .
bernd rau , one of the company 's founders , says his company has explored partnerships with universities in saxony , but the search for skilled workers is becoming increasingly acute . " it is more and more difficult , especially for the it people , and also in engineering and mechanical engineering , " he told deutsche welle .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bernd rau says finding employees for his company has become more difficult language barrier there is a push to attract foreign workers , but it may not be enough .
of the 300 educational programs specialized in renewable energy nationwide , 25 are now taught in english .
that 's up from just seven in 2007 , according to wissenschaftsladen bonn .
and some areas of germany may have to try especially hard to be alluring to outsiders .
claudia kemfert , an energy market specialist at the german institute of economic research in berlin , says the german language is a particularly high hurdle when it comes to attracting foreign workers .
on the international market , it 's simply not very appealing .
to compensate , companies located in eastern germany in particular need to offer good salaries and incentives .
" germany has to do a lot in order to be attractive , both in salary terms and attractive jobs . "
yet kemfert also thinks that the renewables sector has a lot of potential to be attractive to foreigners " because these are jobs of the future and the market will increase drastically all over the world . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : feed in tariffs have made installing solar cells an attractive proposition wary of outsiders the trouble is the industry itself can be wary of outsiders , fearing industrial espionage .
when deutsche welle visited solarworld , photography was completely forbidden .
at and roth and rau it was restricted .
both companies have worldwide operations and lucrative , specialized knowledge to keep secret .
in fact , german companies in general fear losing the competitive edge that their knowledge affords them to foreign competitors .
a survey of security experts done by the german association for security in industry and commerce shows that 74 percent say their companies have knowledge which should be protected .
the survey covered 244 experts and indicates industrial espionage affects companies with operations outside of germany .
just one state to the west of saxony , heinrich metzner of the university of jena in thuringia says some of the international students who have studied photovoltaics at his institute of solid state physics have had to leave germany after completing their studies .
once their student visas expired , they were left with little choice but to return to their home countries and apply their knowledge there instead .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : competition from asia is a real concern for german companies built-in growth cap metzner does n't sympathize much with industry 's fears of spies .
he argues that excessive secrecy has little value in any globalized industry .
knowledge is bound to leak , even by legal means , he says .
" it is inevitable in the globalized economic space when you sell machines and facilities , because manufacturers have to guarantee that their products function properly , " he told deutsche welle .
" and so industry ca n't avoid that know-how will be passed on .
it appears that even as the fields of photovoltaic , and renewable energy in general , grow in leaps and bounds , they may increasingly find themselves limited in their options and struggling to operate within germany as qualified employees become more difficult to find .
immigration policies , protectionist attitudes and an unwillingness to accept foreign workers may well be hampering their efforts , and at the rate the industry is growing , it seems that a limited workforce will stunt the industry 's potential sooner rather than later .
author : gerhard schneibel editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iea predicts oil prices will more than double by 2035 the international energy agency has called for oil subsidies to be eradicated as it predicts that oil demand and prices will rise in the next 25 years , despite a push towards green energy .
-lrb- 09.11.2010 -rrb- german parliament passes law to extend use of nuclear power despite public protests and angry diatribes from the opposition , the german government on thursday took the first major hurdle in a parliamentary vote toward extending the lifespans of nuclear power plants .
-lrb- 28.10.2010 -rrb- smart grids play key role in modern energy infrastructure how do you ensure a steady supply of electricity from fickle renewable sources such as solar , wind and biomass ?
' smart grids ' that manage and distribute flows of electricity could be the answer .
-lrb- 06.09.2010 -rrb- german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- germany to cut subsidies for solar energy a law proposed by chancellor angela merkel 's government would greatly reduce subsidies for solar energy production , and in some cases eliminate them all together .
-lrb- 23.02.2010 -rrb- 07 environment listen to our weekly show about the environment or check out reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 26.05.11 -rrb- the living planet page development listen to this week 's show for development reports from around the globe or check out back editions .
world in progress 01.06.11 world in progress page media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
micro-blog follow the feed get dw 's latest environment stories , and more , right away .
nuclear power readers wrote in to share what nuclear power policy is like in the countries where they live .
readers discuss nuclear policy at home map with international reader response web documentary learn what rainforests do , and how they do it .
take an interactive journey to the jungle © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 23.11.2010 latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- is where latvians go to send telegrams while many countries around the world have given up the telegraph , it 's still in use in the baltics .
ordinary residents can send them via latvian post , while latvian railway continues to use them to post speed limits . despite the wide prevalence of e-mail and mobile phones , and the demise of the telegraph in most parts of europe , some latvians , including the state railway , still use the telegraph as a primary means of communication .
this month , latvia celebrates the 158th anniversary of the arrival of the electric telegraph in their country .
the telegraph service is operated by the national company latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the first latvian telegraph was sent on nov .
1 , 1852 karīna jankovska , manager of production development at latvia post said that around 200 telegrams continue to be sent within the baltic country every month , or almost seven per day .
in addition , there are approximately 140 telegraphic messages being sent to foreign countries and about 300 international telegrams are being received in latvia on a monthly basis .
the authorities say that the service is still important for those latvians who want to stay in touch with their friends or relatives abroad .
they mostly send telegrams to the former soviet republics like russia , belarus and ukraine .
the telegraph also allows sending and receiving of official documents , like visa declarations .
alternative to e-mail telegrams , which cost just 0.80 latvian lats -lrb- 1.15 euros -rrb- for a domestic message , can be sent from every post office across the country .
one just has to ask the postman for a telegram form and fill in the required information : the name and surname of the sender , the address of the recipient and the message .
however , latvia post admits that the small number of messages that are sent tend to be sent almost exclusively by older latvians who do not use e-mails nor mobile phones , and by those who prefer it for nostalgic reasons .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvian railways continues to use the telegraph for everyday operations " for example , one can easily send a wedding invitation , " jankovska added . " the sender simply has to write the text and pay extra seven cents for each written word .
i think that most of the people use telegrams nowadays because it is interesting . "
forget about morse code the first public electromagnetic telegraph line in the territory of latvia was opened on november 1 , 1852 .
the line connected the capital city of riga with bolderāja , a nearby residential town .
it was the longest civilian telegraph line in the northern europe at the time and the first telegram was sent in german .
but the telegraph technology has changed greatly during the years .
latvia post doesn ’ t employ any vintage telegraph equipment used in the old days in order to provide the telegram service .
all the telegrams are now being sent by computer over the internet using a special e-mail system between the post offices .
the message is printed out with a printer and then delivered to the addressee by the postman the following day .
meanwhile , the telegraphic messages are being used in business as well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the telegraph remains a bit of an anachronism in modern-day riga the latvian railway still uses teletype to communicate between the stations , freight senders and the ports .
for instance , the company utilizes the old-fashioned technology in situations when any speed limitations have to be imposed on the railway network .
" we don ’ t have yet -lsb- this -rsb- so-called e-signature , " said antra birzule , a latvian railway spokesperson .
by contrast , latvia 's northern neighbor , estonia , has had digital signatures and publicly-provided encrypted e-mail for almost a decade .
" those documents sent by teletype are documented as an official document .
if it ’ s just an e-mail it doesn ’ t work yet in latvia at such a high level because in the railway , the key issue is safety .
so , we still rely on the teletype . "
special place in latvian history many latvians are either unaware of , or have forgotten the telegraph 's key role in latvia ’ s fight for restoration of its independence back in january 1991 .
the soviet political and military forces tried to overthrow the latvian authorities by occupying important governmental institutions .
" when the telephone lines were shut down by the kgb , the so called telex central was still operating , " explained ļevs datelis , a latvian telecommunications engineer and expert on latvian telegraph history . " the soviet secret police didn ’ t pay much attention to it and the latvian politicians used it for communication .
it also enabled them to communicate with foreign countries . "
however , despite this history , karīna jankovska of latvia post added that even though the telegram service does n't lose money , the company plans on shutting down the telegram service by 2015 .
author : ģederts ģelzis , riga editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de row breaks out over latvia 's main anti-corruption body plans to shift the focus of the fight against corruption in latvia from the capital riga to the regions will just weaken the anti-corruption drive , critics say .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- economic recovery at stake in latvian elections latvia is just weeks away from its next general election .
one of the key issues is the country 's fledgling economic recovery .
but the party that is leading in the opinion polls wants to forge closer ties with russia .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- riga on a shoestring want to explore europe but you 're on a tight budget ?
pulse takes you to some of europe 's most interesting cities and proves you do n't have to spend a fortune .
in this edition , dw 's gederts gelzis shows you around riga .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years feedback have you ever sent a telegram ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 23.11.2010 latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- is where latvians go to send telegrams while many countries around the world have given up the telegraph , it 's still in use in the baltics .
ordinary residents can send them via latvian post , while latvian railway continues to use them to post speed limits . despite the wide prevalence of e-mail and mobile phones , and the demise of the telegraph in most parts of europe , some latvians , including the state railway , still use the telegraph as a primary means of communication .
this month , latvia celebrates the 158th anniversary of the arrival of the electric telegraph in their country .
the telegraph service is operated by the national company latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the first latvian telegraph was sent on nov .
1 , 1852 karīna jankovska , manager of production development at latvia post said that around 200 telegrams continue to be sent within the baltic country every month , or almost seven per day .
in addition , there are approximately 140 telegraphic messages being sent to foreign countries and about 300 international telegrams are being received in latvia on a monthly basis .
the authorities say that the service is still important for those latvians who want to stay in touch with their friends or relatives abroad .
they mostly send telegrams to the former soviet republics like russia , belarus and ukraine .
the telegraph also allows sending and receiving of official documents , like visa declarations .
alternative to e-mail telegrams , which cost just 0.80 latvian lats -lrb- 1.15 euros -rrb- for a domestic message , can be sent from every post office across the country .
one just has to ask the postman for a telegram form and fill in the required information : the name and surname of the sender , the address of the recipient and the message .
however , latvia post admits that the small number of messages that are sent tend to be sent almost exclusively by older latvians who do not use e-mails nor mobile phones , and by those who prefer it for nostalgic reasons .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvian railways continues to use the telegraph for everyday operations " for example , one can easily send a wedding invitation , " jankovska added . " the sender simply has to write the text and pay extra seven cents for each written word .
i think that most of the people use telegrams nowadays because it is interesting . "
forget about morse code the first public electromagnetic telegraph line in the territory of latvia was opened on november 1 , 1852 .
the line connected the capital city of riga with bolderāja , a nearby residential town .
it was the longest civilian telegraph line in the northern europe at the time and the first telegram was sent in german .
but the telegraph technology has changed greatly during the years .
latvia post doesn ’ t employ any vintage telegraph equipment used in the old days in order to provide the telegram service .
all the telegrams are now being sent by computer over the internet using a special e-mail system between the post offices .
the message is printed out with a printer and then delivered to the addressee by the postman the following day .
meanwhile , the telegraphic messages are being used in business as well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the telegraph remains a bit of an anachronism in modern-day riga the latvian railway still uses teletype to communicate between the stations , freight senders and the ports .
for instance , the company utilizes the old-fashioned technology in situations when any speed limitations have to be imposed on the railway network .
" we don ’ t have yet -lsb- this -rsb- so-called e-signature , " said antra birzule , a latvian railway spokesperson .
by contrast , latvia 's northern neighbor , estonia , has had digital signatures and publicly-provided encrypted e-mail for almost a decade .
" those documents sent by teletype are documented as an official document .
if it ’ s just an e-mail it doesn ’ t work yet in latvia at such a high level because in the railway , the key issue is safety .
so , we still rely on the teletype . "
special place in latvian history many latvians are either unaware of , or have forgotten the telegraph 's key role in latvia ’ s fight for restoration of its independence back in january 1991 .
the soviet political and military forces tried to overthrow the latvian authorities by occupying important governmental institutions .
" when the telephone lines were shut down by the kgb , the so called telex central was still operating , " explained ļevs datelis , a latvian telecommunications engineer and expert on latvian telegraph history . " the soviet secret police didn ’ t pay much attention to it and the latvian politicians used it for communication .
it also enabled them to communicate with foreign countries . "
however , despite this history , karīna jankovska of latvia post added that even though the telegram service does n't lose money , the company plans on shutting down the telegram service by 2015 .
author : ģederts ģelzis , riga editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de row breaks out over latvia 's main anti-corruption body plans to shift the focus of the fight against corruption in latvia from the capital riga to the regions will just weaken the anti-corruption drive , critics say .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- economic recovery at stake in latvian elections latvia is just weeks away from its next general election .
one of the key issues is the country 's fledgling economic recovery .
but the party that is leading in the opinion polls wants to forge closer ties with russia .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- riga on a shoestring want to explore europe but you 're on a tight budget ?
pulse takes you to some of europe 's most interesting cities and proves you do n't have to spend a fortune .
in this edition , dw 's gederts gelzis shows you around riga .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 23.11.2010 latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- is where latvians go to send telegrams while many countries around the world have given up the telegraph , it 's still in use in the baltics .
ordinary residents can send them via latvian post , while latvian railway continues to use them to post speed limits . despite the wide prevalence of e-mail and mobile phones , and the demise of the telegraph in most parts of europe , some latvians , including the state railway , still use the telegraph as a primary means of communication .
this month , latvia celebrates the 158th anniversary of the arrival of the electric telegraph in their country .
the telegraph service is operated by the national company latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the first latvian telegraph was sent on nov .
1 , 1852 karīna jankovska , manager of production development at latvia post said that around 200 telegrams continue to be sent within the baltic country every month , or almost seven per day .
in addition , there are approximately 140 telegraphic messages being sent to foreign countries and about 300 international telegrams are being received in latvia on a monthly basis .
the authorities say that the service is still important for those latvians who want to stay in touch with their friends or relatives abroad .
they mostly send telegrams to the former soviet republics like russia , belarus and ukraine .
the telegraph also allows sending and receiving of official documents , like visa declarations .
alternative to e-mail telegrams , which cost just 0.80 latvian lats -lrb- 1.15 euros -rrb- for a domestic message , can be sent from every post office across the country .
one just has to ask the postman for a telegram form and fill in the required information : the name and surname of the sender , the address of the recipient and the message .
however , latvia post admits that the small number of messages that are sent tend to be sent almost exclusively by older latvians who do not use e-mails nor mobile phones , and by those who prefer it for nostalgic reasons .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvian railways continues to use the telegraph for everyday operations " for example , one can easily send a wedding invitation , " jankovska added . " the sender simply has to write the text and pay extra seven cents for each written word .
i think that most of the people use telegrams nowadays because it is interesting . "
forget about morse code the first public electromagnetic telegraph line in the territory of latvia was opened on november 1 , 1852 .
the line connected the capital city of riga with bolderāja , a nearby residential town .
it was the longest civilian telegraph line in the northern europe at the time and the first telegram was sent in german .
but the telegraph technology has changed greatly during the years .
latvia post doesn ’ t employ any vintage telegraph equipment used in the old days in order to provide the telegram service .
all the telegrams are now being sent by computer over the internet using a special e-mail system between the post offices .
the message is printed out with a printer and then delivered to the addressee by the postman the following day .
meanwhile , the telegraphic messages are being used in business as well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the telegraph remains a bit of an anachronism in modern-day riga the latvian railway still uses teletype to communicate between the stations , freight senders and the ports .
for instance , the company utilizes the old-fashioned technology in situations when any speed limitations have to be imposed on the railway network .
" we don ’ t have yet -lsb- this -rsb- so-called e-signature , " said antra birzule , a latvian railway spokesperson .
by contrast , latvia 's northern neighbor , estonia , has had digital signatures and publicly-provided encrypted e-mail for almost a decade .
" those documents sent by teletype are documented as an official document .
if it ’ s just an e-mail it doesn ’ t work yet in latvia at such a high level because in the railway , the key issue is safety .
so , we still rely on the teletype . "
special place in latvian history many latvians are either unaware of , or have forgotten the telegraph 's key role in latvia ’ s fight for restoration of its independence back in january 1991 .
the soviet political and military forces tried to overthrow the latvian authorities by occupying important governmental institutions .
" when the telephone lines were shut down by the kgb , the so called telex central was still operating , " explained ļevs datelis , a latvian telecommunications engineer and expert on latvian telegraph history . " the soviet secret police didn ’ t pay much attention to it and the latvian politicians used it for communication .
it also enabled them to communicate with foreign countries . "
however , despite this history , karīna jankovska of latvia post added that even though the telegram service does n't lose money , the company plans on shutting down the telegram service by 2015 .
author : ģederts ģelzis , riga editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de row breaks out over latvia 's main anti-corruption body plans to shift the focus of the fight against corruption in latvia from the capital riga to the regions will just weaken the anti-corruption drive , critics say .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- economic recovery at stake in latvian elections latvia is just weeks away from its next general election .
one of the key issues is the country 's fledgling economic recovery .
but the party that is leading in the opinion polls wants to forge closer ties with russia .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- riga on a shoestring want to explore europe but you 're on a tight budget ?
pulse takes you to some of europe 's most interesting cities and proves you do n't have to spend a fortune .
in this edition , dw 's gederts gelzis shows you around riga .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 23.11.2010 bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : borriello fell , but retained his composure to start the fight back bayern munich suffered a shock defeat against champions league rivals roma , conceding two late goals .
the italians came out on top despite a two-goal lead for the bavarians through in-form mario gomez . bayern munich squandered a two-goal lead to hand victory to champions league opponents roma in tuesday 's soccer action .
louis van gaal 's men , who have already qualified for the knockout stages of the competition , went ahead through two goals from in-form striker mario gomez .
although roma started well , it was gomez who broke the deadlock on 34 minutes , when franck ribery skillfully turned the ball to gomez , who beat defender marco cassetti to put the ball into the corner of goal .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gomez has scored 14 goals in his last 10 games five minutes later , a misplaced pass from roma 's jeremy menez was picked up by thomas mueller .
the german midfielder 's pass allowed gomez to double his tally , firing in across goalkeeper julio sergio .
the goal means gomez has now scored 14 goals in his last 10 games .
with bayern cruising , it was up to roma to muster a strong comeback if they were to boost their chances of qualification .
the italian revival began after the restart , when roma coach claudio ranieri moved menez from behind the attack to wide right .
menez easily beat bayern 's anatoliy tymoshchuk and martin demichelis to cross the ball for forward marco borriello .
although boriello fell as tried to control the pass , he was still able to flick the ball into goal past keeper thomas kraft .
late goals seal win the equalizer came nine minutes from time , as john arne riise fired the ball across the box for daniele de rossi to put away .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern have a superior record in their head-to-head encounters with roma substitute francesco totti made it 3-2 from the penalty spot on 84 minutes , after borriello was brought down by goalkeeper thomas kraft .
coach louis van gaal criticized his side for throwing away a lead .
" the problem was , we lost too many balls and gave too many chances to roma , " said van gaal .
" we ’ ve thrown away a game again . " van gaal 's criticism of his players comes as the dutch coach is increasingly under fire for his management style . on tuesday , midfielder ribery said he was disappointed to hear van gaal accuse him of a lacklustre performance in a friendly against third division side unterhaching .
van gaal has also been accused of arrogance by club boss uli hoeness . bayern still top group e with 12 points and can not be supplanted by second-place roma , who have an inferior head-to head record with the bavarians .
in wednesday 's champions league football , schalke play host to lyon and bremen are away to london side tottenham hotspur .
author : richard connor -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : catherine bolsover send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich coast to win over nuremberg bayern munich wrapped up the 12th bundesliga match day with an easy win over nuremberg .
freiburg scored an extra time goal to squeak out a victory against hoffenheim .
-lrb- 14.11.2010 -rrb- by luck or judgment , van gaal has bayern back on course forced for months to withstand talk of " crisis , " bundesliga giant bayern munich are beginning to stir .
with champions league progress now secure , the bavarians may get down to business - and rip through the league .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- bayern ease through to champions league knockout phase germany international mario gomez was given a rare start as bayern munich outplayed romanian side cfr cluj 4-0 on wednesday .
gomez contributed with a hat trick , helping his team to the champions league knockout stages .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- feedback should bayern focus all their efforts on european success this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 dw-tv europe live drive it !
we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live bundesliga predictions bumpy progress dw 's soccer pundits are having their bumps felt in an attempt to predict match day 15 results .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 23.11.2010 bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : borriello fell , but retained his composure to start the fight back bayern munich suffered a shock defeat against champions league rivals roma , conceding two late goals .
the italians came out on top despite a two-goal lead for the bavarians through in-form mario gomez . bayern munich squandered a two-goal lead to hand victory to champions league opponents roma in tuesday 's soccer action .
louis van gaal 's men , who have already qualified for the knockout stages of the competition , went ahead through two goals from in-form striker mario gomez .
although roma started well , it was gomez who broke the deadlock on 34 minutes , when franck ribery skillfully turned the ball to gomez , who beat defender marco cassetti to put the ball into the corner of goal .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gomez has scored 14 goals in his last 10 games five minutes later , a misplaced pass from roma 's jeremy menez was picked up by thomas mueller .
the german midfielder 's pass allowed gomez to double his tally , firing in across goalkeeper julio sergio .
the goal means gomez has now scored 14 goals in his last 10 games .
with bayern cruising , it was up to roma to muster a strong comeback if they were to boost their chances of qualification .
the italian revival began after the restart , when roma coach claudio ranieri moved menez from behind the attack to wide right .
menez easily beat bayern 's anatoliy tymoshchuk and martin demichelis to cross the ball for forward marco borriello .
although boriello fell as tried to control the pass , he was still able to flick the ball into goal past keeper thomas kraft .
late goals seal win the equalizer came nine minutes from time , as john arne riise fired the ball across the box for daniele de rossi to put away .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern have a superior record in their head-to-head encounters with roma substitute francesco totti made it 3-2 from the penalty spot on 84 minutes , after borriello was brought down by goalkeeper thomas kraft .
coach louis van gaal criticized his side for throwing away a lead .
" the problem was , we lost too many balls and gave too many chances to roma , " said van gaal .
" we ’ ve thrown away a game again . " van gaal 's criticism of his players comes as the dutch coach is increasingly under fire for his management style . on tuesday , midfielder ribery said he was disappointed to hear van gaal accuse him of a lacklustre performance in a friendly against third division side unterhaching .
van gaal has also been accused of arrogance by club boss uli hoeness . bayern still top group e with 12 points and can not be supplanted by second-place roma , who have an inferior head-to head record with the bavarians .
in wednesday 's champions league football , schalke play host to lyon and bremen are away to london side tottenham hotspur .
author : richard connor -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : catherine bolsover send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich coast to win over nuremberg bayern munich wrapped up the 12th bundesliga match day with an easy win over nuremberg .
freiburg scored an extra time goal to squeak out a victory against hoffenheim .
-lrb- 14.11.2010 -rrb- by luck or judgment , van gaal has bayern back on course forced for months to withstand talk of " crisis , " bundesliga giant bayern munich are beginning to stir .
with champions league progress now secure , the bavarians may get down to business - and rip through the league .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- bayern ease through to champions league knockout phase germany international mario gomez was given a rare start as bayern munich outplayed romanian side cfr cluj 4-0 on wednesday .
gomez contributed with a hat trick , helping his team to the champions league knockout stages .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- feedback should bayern focus all their efforts on european success this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think google street view is intrusive ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think google street view is intrusive ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 23.11.2010 bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : borriello fell , but retained his composure to start the fight back bayern munich suffered a shock defeat against champions league rivals roma , conceding two late goals .
the italians came out on top despite a two-goal lead for the bavarians through in-form mario gomez . bayern munich squandered a two-goal lead to hand victory to champions league opponents roma in tuesday 's soccer action .
louis van gaal 's men , who have already qualified for the knockout stages of the competition , went ahead through two goals from in-form striker mario gomez .
although roma started well , it was gomez who broke the deadlock on 34 minutes , when franck ribery skillfully turned the ball to gomez , who beat defender marco cassetti to put the ball into the corner of goal .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gomez has scored 14 goals in his last 10 games five minutes later , a misplaced pass from roma 's jeremy menez was picked up by thomas mueller .
the german midfielder 's pass allowed gomez to double his tally , firing in across goalkeeper julio sergio .
the goal means gomez has now scored 14 goals in his last 10 games .
with bayern cruising , it was up to roma to muster a strong comeback if they were to boost their chances of qualification .
the italian revival began after the restart , when roma coach claudio ranieri moved menez from behind the attack to wide right .
menez easily beat bayern 's anatoliy tymoshchuk and martin demichelis to cross the ball for forward marco borriello .
although boriello fell as tried to control the pass , he was still able to flick the ball into goal past keeper thomas kraft .
late goals seal win the equalizer came nine minutes from time , as john arne riise fired the ball across the box for daniele de rossi to put away .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern have a superior record in their head-to-head encounters with roma substitute francesco totti made it 3-2 from the penalty spot on 84 minutes , after borriello was brought down by goalkeeper thomas kraft .
coach louis van gaal criticized his side for throwing away a lead .
" the problem was , we lost too many balls and gave too many chances to roma , " said van gaal .
" we ’ ve thrown away a game again . " van gaal 's criticism of his players comes as the dutch coach is increasingly under fire for his management style . on tuesday , midfielder ribery said he was disappointed to hear van gaal accuse him of a lacklustre performance in a friendly against third division side unterhaching .
van gaal has also been accused of arrogance by club boss uli hoeness . bayern still top group e with 12 points and can not be supplanted by second-place roma , who have an inferior head-to head record with the bavarians .
in wednesday 's champions league football , schalke play host to lyon and bremen are away to london side tottenham hotspur .
author : richard connor -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : catherine bolsover send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich coast to win over nuremberg bayern munich wrapped up the 12th bundesliga match day with an easy win over nuremberg .
freiburg scored an extra time goal to squeak out a victory against hoffenheim .
-lrb- 14.11.2010 -rrb- by luck or judgment , van gaal has bayern back on course forced for months to withstand talk of " crisis , " bundesliga giant bayern munich are beginning to stir .
with champions league progress now secure , the bavarians may get down to business - and rip through the league .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- bayern ease through to champions league knockout phase germany international mario gomez was given a rare start as bayern munich outplayed romanian side cfr cluj 4-0 on wednesday .
gomez contributed with a hat trick , helping his team to the champions league knockout stages .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- 07 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report euro 2012 live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's euro 2012 qualifier against austria : june 3 , 18:15 utc © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 23.11.2010 bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : borriello fell , but retained his composure to start the fight back bayern munich suffered a shock defeat against champions league rivals roma , conceding two late goals .
the italians came out on top despite a two-goal lead for the bavarians through in-form mario gomez . bayern munich squandered a two-goal lead to hand victory to champions league opponents roma in tuesday 's soccer action .
louis van gaal 's men , who have already qualified for the knockout stages of the competition , went ahead through two goals from in-form striker mario gomez .
although roma started well , it was gomez who broke the deadlock on 34 minutes , when franck ribery skillfully turned the ball to gomez , who beat defender marco cassetti to put the ball into the corner of goal .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gomez has scored 14 goals in his last 10 games five minutes later , a misplaced pass from roma 's jeremy menez was picked up by thomas mueller .
the german midfielder 's pass allowed gomez to double his tally , firing in across goalkeeper julio sergio .
the goal means gomez has now scored 14 goals in his last 10 games .
with bayern cruising , it was up to roma to muster a strong comeback if they were to boost their chances of qualification .
the italian revival began after the restart , when roma coach claudio ranieri moved menez from behind the attack to wide right .
menez easily beat bayern 's anatoliy tymoshchuk and martin demichelis to cross the ball for forward marco borriello .
although boriello fell as tried to control the pass , he was still able to flick the ball into goal past keeper thomas kraft .
late goals seal win the equalizer came nine minutes from time , as john arne riise fired the ball across the box for daniele de rossi to put away .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern have a superior record in their head-to-head encounters with roma substitute francesco totti made it 3-2 from the penalty spot on 84 minutes , after borriello was brought down by goalkeeper thomas kraft .
coach louis van gaal criticized his side for throwing away a lead .
" the problem was , we lost too many balls and gave too many chances to roma , " said van gaal .
" we ’ ve thrown away a game again . " van gaal 's criticism of his players comes as the dutch coach is increasingly under fire for his management style . on tuesday , midfielder ribery said he was disappointed to hear van gaal accuse him of a lacklustre performance in a friendly against third division side unterhaching .
van gaal has also been accused of arrogance by club boss uli hoeness . bayern still top group e with 12 points and can not be supplanted by second-place roma , who have an inferior head-to head record with the bavarians .
in wednesday 's champions league football , schalke play host to lyon and bremen are away to london side tottenham hotspur .
author : richard connor -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : catherine bolsover send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich coast to win over nuremberg bayern munich wrapped up the 12th bundesliga match day with an easy win over nuremberg .
freiburg scored an extra time goal to squeak out a victory against hoffenheim .
-lrb- 14.11.2010 -rrb- by luck or judgment , van gaal has bayern back on course forced for months to withstand talk of " crisis , " bundesliga giant bayern munich are beginning to stir .
with champions league progress now secure , the bavarians may get down to business - and rip through the league .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- bayern ease through to champions league knockout phase germany international mario gomez was given a rare start as bayern munich outplayed romanian side cfr cluj 4-0 on wednesday .
gomez contributed with a hat trick , helping his team to the champions league knockout stages .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- 07 dw-tv europe live euromaxx - highlights der woche we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
women 's world cup live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's next match against france : july 5 , 18:30 utc dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report corruption soccer scandal turkish police arrest 60 people in turkey 's biggest ever soccer match-fixing scandal .
anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greece on fiscal track , but must make deeper cuts , lenders say -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de greece -pipe- 23.11.2010 greece on fiscal track , but must make deeper cuts , lenders say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in deep water , greece gets new financial lifeline greece has gained approval for the next installment from an eu and imf financial rescue package , but lenders have demanded even tougher austerity measures . after doubts were voiced in the last two weeks that greece may not be eligible for another piece of the financial rescue pie , athens moved to pledge new efforts to meet the terms of a 110-billion euro -lrb- $ 151 million -rrb- bailout .
international lenders on tuesday said they would help , but prescribed an even stricter regimen for greece to regain financial stability .
the international monetary fund and the european union both stressed that greece would have to cut waste from its health care system and state-owned companies and take tougher action on tax evasion to merit another payout from the rescue fund .
greece ‘ largely on track ' eu and imf auditors , who had been to greece to assess the country 's fiscal progress , said the program was at a crossroads .
the auditors said that greece was " largely on track " with reforms and approved the release in december of nine billion euros in rescue funds .
the approval of the third tranche of the bailout money had been delayed by a day because negotiations on deeper cuts were continuing .
a fourth and bigger slice of aid , totaling 15 billion euros , is due in march , but would depend on progress made with the latest requested measures to combat greece 's massive budget deficit and national debt .
the auditors , however , also did not rule out extending the repayment timetable , or providing an additional loan to greece .
author : gregg benzow -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- greece pledges bigger cuts to make eu targets after admitting it will miss this year 's targets , greece has pledged to hike sales tax , freeze pensions and cut government waste in order to shrink its deficit in 2011 .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with the week we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greece on fiscal track , but must make deeper cuts , lenders say -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de greece -pipe- 23.11.2010 greece on fiscal track , but must make deeper cuts , lenders say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in deep water , greece gets new financial lifeline greece has gained approval for the next installment from an eu and imf financial rescue package , but lenders have demanded even tougher austerity measures . after doubts were voiced in the last two weeks that greece may not be eligible for another piece of the financial rescue pie , athens moved to pledge new efforts to meet the terms of a 110-billion euro -lrb- $ 151 million -rrb- bailout .
international lenders on tuesday said they would help , but prescribed an even stricter regimen for greece to regain financial stability .
the international monetary fund and the european union both stressed that greece would have to cut waste from its health care system and state-owned companies and take tougher action on tax evasion to merit another payout from the rescue fund .
greece ‘ largely on track ' eu and imf auditors , who had been to greece to assess the country 's fiscal progress , said the program was at a crossroads .
the auditors said that greece was " largely on track " with reforms and approved the release in december of nine billion euros in rescue funds .
the approval of the third tranche of the bailout money had been delayed by a day because negotiations on deeper cuts were continuing .
a fourth and bigger slice of aid , totaling 15 billion euros , is due in march , but would depend on progress made with the latest requested measures to combat greece 's massive budget deficit and national debt .
the auditors , however , also did not rule out extending the repayment timetable , or providing an additional loan to greece .
author : gregg benzow -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- greece pledges bigger cuts to make eu targets after admitting it will miss this year 's targets , greece has pledged to hike sales tax , freeze pensions and cut government waste in order to shrink its deficit in 2011 .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
spain deutsche welle takes a closer look at the protesters camped out in central madrid .
watch the video poland poles protest the visit by a representative of the germans expelled from poland .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
terror suspects arrested in belgium , netherlands and germany -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 23.11.2010 terror suspects arrested in belgium , netherlands and germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dozens were arrested police in belgium , the netherlands and germany have arrested at least 10 islamists suspected of plotting an attack in belgium .
another 15 were arrested for allegedly recruiting insurgents for iraq and afghanistan . police in belgium and neighboring countries carried out two separate anti-terror raids on tuesday , arresting at least 25 people .
federal prosecutors in belgium first announced the arrests of at least 10 islamists suspected of plotting an attack on an unknown target in belgium .
" ten belgian , dutch , moroccan and russian nationals have been arrested , " a spokesman for the belgian prosecutor 's office said on tuesday .
the russian nationals were of chechen origin , he said .
one of those russians has been detained in the western german city of aachen , close to the dutch border .
the others were arrested in belgium 's second city antwerp and in the dutch capital amsterdam .
extremist websites under scrutiny the group used the extremist website ansar al mujahideen , according to the prosecutors .
the target has not been determined yet .
" there 's also a website called sharia for belgium , which is dedicated to people who have motive to launch some kind of attack on belgium specifically , " deutsche welle 's brussels correspondent vanessa mock said . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : security measures have been stepped up across germany " but at the moment we do n't know exactly how those websites feed into those groups , " she added .
the arrests followed a months-long investigation initiated by the belgian authorities in late 2009 in cooperation with its european neighbors and the eu 's judicial cooperation unit eurojust .
the target of the attack is not known , but " they believe it might have been on antwerp , seeing as the bulk of the arrests were made there .
it has n't been confirmed , but that 's where the houses were raided , " mock said .
at least 15 arrested in later raids later on tuesday evening , belgian prosecutors announced at least 15 further arrests , made as part of an unrelated set of property searches in brussels .
this second probe was investigating an iraq and afghanistan war recruitment drive , and a spokeswoman for the prosecutor 's office said that " about 15 people " were detained .
belgian authorities said the raids were the culmination of a three year investigation into a belgian islamic center , conducted with the cooperation of foreign police services .
some of the people arrested are suspected members of a group that has been trying to recruit people to go and fight for the afghan and iraqi insurgencies .
no connection to german terror alert but germany 's interior ministry said on tuesday that the belgian arrests had nothing to do with the current situation in germany , where security measures have been stepped up because of intelligence suggesting a terror attack may be on the cards .
even the first set of arrests , one of which was made in germany , was not thought to be connected to the terror warnings from berlin .
" these are measures taken by the belgian authorities , based on evidence suggesting that young belgians are being recruited for the islamist separatist fight in chechnya , " stefan paris , spokesman for the german interior ministry said on tuesday .
the dutch authorities also said that tuesday 's arrests were not connected to the situation in germany .
author : nicole goebel , mark hallam -lrb- dpa , afp , reuters -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warned that some dangers were being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- german interior ministers acknowledge terror threat , call for calm germany 's interior ministers have called on citizens to continue living their lives as before , in the face of recent terror threats .
on the same day , in namibia , a suspected bomb was found on a plane headed for munich .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- germany steps up security on news of planned terror attack germany announces stepped up security in light of information that terrorists may be planning an attack in the country for late november .
security is to be increased at all airports and train stations .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic at least ten suspects arrested in belgian terror plot .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
terror suspects arrested in belgium , netherlands and germany -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 23.11.2010 terror suspects arrested in belgium , netherlands and germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dozens were arrested police in belgium , the netherlands and germany have arrested at least 10 islamists suspected of plotting an attack in belgium .
another 15 were arrested for allegedly recruiting insurgents for iraq and afghanistan . police in belgium and neighboring countries carried out two separate anti-terror raids on tuesday , arresting at least 25 people .
federal prosecutors in belgium first announced the arrests of at least 10 islamists suspected of plotting an attack on an unknown target in belgium .
" ten belgian , dutch , moroccan and russian nationals have been arrested , " a spokesman for the belgian prosecutor 's office said on tuesday .
the russian nationals were of chechen origin , he said .
one of those russians has been detained in the western german city of aachen , close to the dutch border .
the others were arrested in belgium 's second city antwerp and in the dutch capital amsterdam .
extremist websites under scrutiny the group used the extremist website ansar al mujahideen , according to the prosecutors .
the target has not been determined yet .
" there 's also a website called sharia for belgium , which is dedicated to people who have motive to launch some kind of attack on belgium specifically , " deutsche welle 's brussels correspondent vanessa mock said . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : security measures have been stepped up across germany " but at the moment we do n't know exactly how those websites feed into those groups , " she added .
the arrests followed a months-long investigation initiated by the belgian authorities in late 2009 in cooperation with its european neighbors and the eu 's judicial cooperation unit eurojust .
the target of the attack is not known , but " they believe it might have been on antwerp , seeing as the bulk of the arrests were made there .
it has n't been confirmed , but that 's where the houses were raided , " mock said .
at least 15 arrested in later raids later on tuesday evening , belgian prosecutors announced at least 15 further arrests , made as part of an unrelated set of property searches in brussels .
this second probe was investigating an iraq and afghanistan war recruitment drive , and a spokeswoman for the prosecutor 's office said that " about 15 people " were detained .
belgian authorities said the raids were the culmination of a three year investigation into a belgian islamic center , conducted with the cooperation of foreign police services .
some of the people arrested are suspected members of a group that has been trying to recruit people to go and fight for the afghan and iraqi insurgencies .
no connection to german terror alert but germany 's interior ministry said on tuesday that the belgian arrests had nothing to do with the current situation in germany , where security measures have been stepped up because of intelligence suggesting a terror attack may be on the cards .
even the first set of arrests , one of which was made in germany , was not thought to be connected to the terror warnings from berlin .
" these are measures taken by the belgian authorities , based on evidence suggesting that young belgians are being recruited for the islamist separatist fight in chechnya , " stefan paris , spokesman for the german interior ministry said on tuesday .
the dutch authorities also said that tuesday 's arrests were not connected to the situation in germany .
author : nicole goebel , mark hallam -lrb- dpa , afp , reuters -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warned that some dangers were being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- german interior ministers acknowledge terror threat , call for calm germany 's interior ministers have called on citizens to continue living their lives as before , in the face of recent terror threats .
on the same day , in namibia , a suspected bomb was found on a plane headed for munich .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- germany steps up security on news of planned terror attack germany announces stepped up security in light of information that terrorists may be planning an attack in the country for late november .
security is to be increased at all airports and train stations .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic at least ten suspects arrested in belgian terror plot .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art the 54th biennale contemporary art festival in venice spotlights artists from 88 countries .
watch the video turkey turkey 's opposition has undergone a makeover and is touting new rights for minority kurds .
listen to the audio nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
terror suspects arrested in belgium , netherlands and germany -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 23.11.2010 terror suspects arrested in belgium , netherlands and germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dozens were arrested police in belgium , the netherlands and germany have arrested at least 10 islamists suspected of plotting an attack in belgium .
another 15 were arrested for allegedly recruiting insurgents for iraq and afghanistan . police in belgium and neighboring countries carried out two separate anti-terror raids on tuesday , arresting at least 25 people .
federal prosecutors in belgium first announced the arrests of at least 10 islamists suspected of plotting an attack on an unknown target in belgium .
" ten belgian , dutch , moroccan and russian nationals have been arrested , " a spokesman for the belgian prosecutor 's office said on tuesday .
the russian nationals were of chechen origin , he said .
one of those russians has been detained in the western german city of aachen , close to the dutch border .
the others were arrested in belgium 's second city antwerp and in the dutch capital amsterdam .
extremist websites under scrutiny the group used the extremist website ansar al mujahideen , according to the prosecutors .
the target has not been determined yet .
" there 's also a website called sharia for belgium , which is dedicated to people who have motive to launch some kind of attack on belgium specifically , " deutsche welle 's brussels correspondent vanessa mock said . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : security measures have been stepped up across germany " but at the moment we do n't know exactly how those websites feed into those groups , " she added .
the arrests followed a months-long investigation initiated by the belgian authorities in late 2009 in cooperation with its european neighbors and the eu 's judicial cooperation unit eurojust .
the target of the attack is not known , but " they believe it might have been on antwerp , seeing as the bulk of the arrests were made there .
it has n't been confirmed , but that 's where the houses were raided , " mock said .
at least 15 arrested in later raids later on tuesday evening , belgian prosecutors announced at least 15 further arrests , made as part of an unrelated set of property searches in brussels .
this second probe was investigating an iraq and afghanistan war recruitment drive , and a spokeswoman for the prosecutor 's office said that " about 15 people " were detained .
belgian authorities said the raids were the culmination of a three year investigation into a belgian islamic center , conducted with the cooperation of foreign police services .
some of the people arrested are suspected members of a group that has been trying to recruit people to go and fight for the afghan and iraqi insurgencies .
no connection to german terror alert but germany 's interior ministry said on tuesday that the belgian arrests had nothing to do with the current situation in germany , where security measures have been stepped up because of intelligence suggesting a terror attack may be on the cards .
even the first set of arrests , one of which was made in germany , was not thought to be connected to the terror warnings from berlin .
" these are measures taken by the belgian authorities , based on evidence suggesting that young belgians are being recruited for the islamist separatist fight in chechnya , " stefan paris , spokesman for the german interior ministry said on tuesday .
the dutch authorities also said that tuesday 's arrests were not connected to the situation in germany .
author : nicole goebel , mark hallam -lrb- dpa , afp , reuters -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warned that some dangers were being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- german interior ministers acknowledge terror threat , call for calm germany 's interior ministers have called on citizens to continue living their lives as before , in the face of recent terror threats .
on the same day , in namibia , a suspected bomb was found on a plane headed for munich .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- germany steps up security on news of planned terror attack germany announces stepped up security in light of information that terrorists may be planning an attack in the country for late november .
security is to be increased at all airports and train stations .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic at least ten suspects arrested in belgian terror plot .
feedback are you worried about possible terror attacks ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
terror suspects arrested in belgium , netherlands and germany -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 23.11.2010 terror suspects arrested in belgium , netherlands and germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dozens were arrested police in belgium , the netherlands and germany have arrested at least 10 islamists suspected of plotting an attack in belgium .
another 15 were arrested for allegedly recruiting insurgents for iraq and afghanistan . police in belgium and neighboring countries carried out two separate anti-terror raids on tuesday , arresting at least 25 people .
federal prosecutors in belgium first announced the arrests of at least 10 islamists suspected of plotting an attack on an unknown target in belgium .
" ten belgian , dutch , moroccan and russian nationals have been arrested , " a spokesman for the belgian prosecutor 's office said on tuesday .
the russian nationals were of chechen origin , he said .
one of those russians has been detained in the western german city of aachen , close to the dutch border .
the others were arrested in belgium 's second city antwerp and in the dutch capital amsterdam .
extremist websites under scrutiny the group used the extremist website ansar al mujahideen , according to the prosecutors .
the target has not been determined yet .
" there 's also a website called sharia for belgium , which is dedicated to people who have motive to launch some kind of attack on belgium specifically , " deutsche welle 's brussels correspondent vanessa mock said . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : security measures have been stepped up across germany " but at the moment we do n't know exactly how those websites feed into those groups , " she added .
the arrests followed a months-long investigation initiated by the belgian authorities in late 2009 in cooperation with its european neighbors and the eu 's judicial cooperation unit eurojust .
the target of the attack is not known , but " they believe it might have been on antwerp , seeing as the bulk of the arrests were made there .
it has n't been confirmed , but that 's where the houses were raided , " mock said .
at least 15 arrested in later raids later on tuesday evening , belgian prosecutors announced at least 15 further arrests , made as part of an unrelated set of property searches in brussels .
this second probe was investigating an iraq and afghanistan war recruitment drive , and a spokeswoman for the prosecutor 's office said that " about 15 people " were detained .
belgian authorities said the raids were the culmination of a three year investigation into a belgian islamic center , conducted with the cooperation of foreign police services .
some of the people arrested are suspected members of a group that has been trying to recruit people to go and fight for the afghan and iraqi insurgencies .
no connection to german terror alert but germany 's interior ministry said on tuesday that the belgian arrests had nothing to do with the current situation in germany , where security measures have been stepped up because of intelligence suggesting a terror attack may be on the cards .
even the first set of arrests , one of which was made in germany , was not thought to be connected to the terror warnings from berlin .
" these are measures taken by the belgian authorities , based on evidence suggesting that young belgians are being recruited for the islamist separatist fight in chechnya , " stefan paris , spokesman for the german interior ministry said on tuesday .
the dutch authorities also said that tuesday 's arrests were not connected to the situation in germany .
author : nicole goebel , mark hallam -lrb- dpa , afp , reuters -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warned that some dangers were being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- german interior ministers acknowledge terror threat , call for calm germany 's interior ministers have called on citizens to continue living their lives as before , in the face of recent terror threats .
on the same day , in namibia , a suspected bomb was found on a plane headed for munich .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- germany steps up security on news of planned terror attack germany announces stepped up security in light of information that terrorists may be planning an attack in the country for late november .
security is to be increased at all airports and train stations .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic at least ten suspects arrested in belgian terror plot .
feedback are you worried about possible terror attacks ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
police overworked and increasingly at risk , says new union chief -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 23.11.2010 police overworked and increasingly at risk , says new union chief großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police are often spread too thinly in germany a day after being elected as the new head of the german police workers ' union , bernhard witthaut said german police are spread too thin , overworked and increasingly at risk . bernhard witthaut , the newly-elected head of germany 's police workers union , had not even been in office for a full day before drawing attention to the overworked state of germany 's police force .
on monday , witthaut was elected by his colleagues at a national meeting of the police union to lead the organization , and tuesday morning , witthaut gave an interview with german public radio outlining some of the problems facing german police .
" in light of recent terror warnings and also situations where a large contingent of police has been necessary , we have reached the limits of our capacities , " witthaut said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : witthaut says police have reached their limits in recent weeks , security scares related to failed parcel bombs and media reports outlining a " bloodbath " massacre at the german parliament building has led the interior ministry to increase the presence of security forces at large gatherings and public transportation hubs .
last legs large-scale demonstrations have also required additional a heightened security presence .
the recent transport of nuclear waste to the gorleben storage facility in northern germany came with a price tag of around 50 million euros for security needed to clear protestors out of the way of the transport containers .
in september , demonstrations against a planned train station renovation project in stuttgart made headlines when police and protestors clashed violently .
meanwhile , cuts to police forces and hiring freezes in many states have led to police resources being spread too thin , said witthaut .
" they 're really on their last legs , " he said of germany 's police officers .
political scapegoats christian pfeiffer , director of the criminology research institute of lower saxony , says the current political situation in germany is n't making things any easier for police officers .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police action in stuttgart has been widely criticized " it 's a new problem that the police have to iron out difficulties when political decisions are made without adequate justification or explanation , " pfeiffer told deutsche welle .
" the police are turned into scapegoats when politicians make mistakes with the transparency of their decisions . "
terror warnings issued by the interior ministry , such as the one last week calling on german citizens to remain alert but not to panic , are sometimes vague .
the glass cupola of the german parliament building was recently closed to visitors after media reports of a planned terror attack there , but the government insisted it was all precautionary and would not confirm or deny the media reports .
" even here , there is no transparency , " said pfeiffer .
" it 's not clear if this is really necessary or if this is just a demonstration by the internal security politicians to show they have everything under control . "
risk of violence adding to the stress in a police officer 's life is the growing trend of violence against police .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many police were needed to clear the way to gorleben this has been a subject of debate in german media and the police workers union for some time , but a 2010 study authored by pfeiffer at the criminal research institute has supported these speculations with concrete facts .
the study surveyed over 20,000 police officers in ten german states about violence they encountered on the job in the last five years .
pfeiffer said instances where an officer had to be taken off the job for at least seven days because of injuries sustained due to violence on the job had grown by 60 percent .
" someone who is stressed is less likely to react appropriately in a conflict situation than they normally would , " said pfeiffer .
" the risk - also due to being overworked - of sustaining a serious injury increases for that reason . "
use of bundeswehr troops one solution floated by klaus jansen , head of the association of german criminologists , is to use bundeswehr soldiers in a supporting role with police .
" we have to assume , that the exceptional use of additional police because of the current threat of terrorism will continue well into next year , " jansen said in an interview with the neue osnabruecker zeitung newspaper .
using bundeswehr troops to support normal police presents a legal question - it would require an amendment to the german constitution - but christian pfeiffer thinks there is a better solution .
he says if criminality - not a lack of resources or overburdened police officers - was addressed at a political level and could be reduced , then the current level of police officers in germany would be adequate for them to properly do their job .
pfeiffer thinks bundeswehr troops should - as they have in the past - only be used to support police in emergency situations such as floods .
author : matt zuvela editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warned that some dangers were being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nuclear waste shipment continues to spark determined protests the train shipment of nuclear waste to a storage site in northern germany has sparked massive protests and blockades .
the last stretch is to be completed on tuesday by trucks , but activists have vowed to block the way .
-lrb- 08.11.2010 -rrb- police use water cannons , tear gas on stuttgart train station opponents opponents of stuttgart 's planned train station renovation project have clashed with police in the city 's schlossgarten park , where 25 trees are to be cut down in connection with the project .
-lrb- 30.09.2010 -rrb- feedback should bundeswehr troops be used to support police ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
police overworked and increasingly at risk , says new union chief -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 23.11.2010 police overworked and increasingly at risk , says new union chief großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police are often spread too thinly in germany a day after being elected as the new head of the german police workers ' union , bernhard witthaut said german police are spread too thin , overworked and increasingly at risk . bernhard witthaut , the newly-elected head of germany 's police workers union , had not even been in office for a full day before drawing attention to the overworked state of germany 's police force .
on monday , witthaut was elected by his colleagues at a national meeting of the police union to lead the organization , and tuesday morning , witthaut gave an interview with german public radio outlining some of the problems facing german police .
" in light of recent terror warnings and also situations where a large contingent of police has been necessary , we have reached the limits of our capacities , " witthaut said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : witthaut says police have reached their limits in recent weeks , security scares related to failed parcel bombs and media reports outlining a " bloodbath " massacre at the german parliament building has led the interior ministry to increase the presence of security forces at large gatherings and public transportation hubs .
last legs large-scale demonstrations have also required additional a heightened security presence .
the recent transport of nuclear waste to the gorleben storage facility in northern germany came with a price tag of around 50 million euros for security needed to clear protestors out of the way of the transport containers .
in september , demonstrations against a planned train station renovation project in stuttgart made headlines when police and protestors clashed violently .
meanwhile , cuts to police forces and hiring freezes in many states have led to police resources being spread too thin , said witthaut .
" they 're really on their last legs , " he said of germany 's police officers .
political scapegoats christian pfeiffer , director of the criminology research institute of lower saxony , says the current political situation in germany is n't making things any easier for police officers .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police action in stuttgart has been widely criticized " it 's a new problem that the police have to iron out difficulties when political decisions are made without adequate justification or explanation , " pfeiffer told deutsche welle .
" the police are turned into scapegoats when politicians make mistakes with the transparency of their decisions . "
terror warnings issued by the interior ministry , such as the one last week calling on german citizens to remain alert but not to panic , are sometimes vague .
the glass cupola of the german parliament building was recently closed to visitors after media reports of a planned terror attack there , but the government insisted it was all precautionary and would not confirm or deny the media reports .
" even here , there is no transparency , " said pfeiffer .
" it 's not clear if this is really necessary or if this is just a demonstration by the internal security politicians to show they have everything under control . "
risk of violence adding to the stress in a police officer 's life is the growing trend of violence against police .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many police were needed to clear the way to gorleben this has been a subject of debate in german media and the police workers union for some time , but a 2010 study authored by pfeiffer at the criminal research institute has supported these speculations with concrete facts .
the study surveyed over 20,000 police officers in ten german states about violence they encountered on the job in the last five years .
pfeiffer said instances where an officer had to be taken off the job for at least seven days because of injuries sustained due to violence on the job had grown by 60 percent .
" someone who is stressed is less likely to react appropriately in a conflict situation than they normally would , " said pfeiffer .
" the risk - also due to being overworked - of sustaining a serious injury increases for that reason . "
use of bundeswehr troops one solution floated by klaus jansen , head of the association of german criminologists , is to use bundeswehr soldiers in a supporting role with police .
" we have to assume , that the exceptional use of additional police because of the current threat of terrorism will continue well into next year , " jansen said in an interview with the neue osnabruecker zeitung newspaper .
using bundeswehr troops to support normal police presents a legal question - it would require an amendment to the german constitution - but christian pfeiffer thinks there is a better solution .
he says if criminality - not a lack of resources or overburdened police officers - was addressed at a political level and could be reduced , then the current level of police officers in germany would be adequate for them to properly do their job .
pfeiffer thinks bundeswehr troops should - as they have in the past - only be used to support police in emergency situations such as floods .
author : matt zuvela editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warned that some dangers were being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nuclear waste shipment continues to spark determined protests the train shipment of nuclear waste to a storage site in northern germany has sparked massive protests and blockades .
the last stretch is to be completed on tuesday by trucks , but activists have vowed to block the way .
-lrb- 08.11.2010 -rrb- police use water cannons , tear gas on stuttgart train station opponents opponents of stuttgart 's planned train station renovation project have clashed with police in the city 's schlossgarten park , where 25 trees are to be cut down in connection with the project .
-lrb- 30.09.2010 -rrb- feedback should bundeswehr troops be used to support police ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
police overworked and increasingly at risk , says new union chief -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 23.11.2010 police overworked and increasingly at risk , says new union chief großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police are often spread too thinly in germany a day after being elected as the new head of the german police workers ' union , bernhard witthaut said german police are spread too thin , overworked and increasingly at risk . bernhard witthaut , the newly-elected head of germany 's police workers union , had not even been in office for a full day before drawing attention to the overworked state of germany 's police force .
on monday , witthaut was elected by his colleagues at a national meeting of the police union to lead the organization , and tuesday morning , witthaut gave an interview with german public radio outlining some of the problems facing german police .
" in light of recent terror warnings and also situations where a large contingent of police has been necessary , we have reached the limits of our capacities , " witthaut said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : witthaut says police have reached their limits in recent weeks , security scares related to failed parcel bombs and media reports outlining a " bloodbath " massacre at the german parliament building has led the interior ministry to increase the presence of security forces at large gatherings and public transportation hubs .
last legs large-scale demonstrations have also required additional a heightened security presence .
the recent transport of nuclear waste to the gorleben storage facility in northern germany came with a price tag of around 50 million euros for security needed to clear protestors out of the way of the transport containers .
in september , demonstrations against a planned train station renovation project in stuttgart made headlines when police and protestors clashed violently .
meanwhile , cuts to police forces and hiring freezes in many states have led to police resources being spread too thin , said witthaut .
" they 're really on their last legs , " he said of germany 's police officers .
political scapegoats christian pfeiffer , director of the criminology research institute of lower saxony , says the current political situation in germany is n't making things any easier for police officers .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police action in stuttgart has been widely criticized " it 's a new problem that the police have to iron out difficulties when political decisions are made without adequate justification or explanation , " pfeiffer told deutsche welle .
" the police are turned into scapegoats when politicians make mistakes with the transparency of their decisions . "
terror warnings issued by the interior ministry , such as the one last week calling on german citizens to remain alert but not to panic , are sometimes vague .
the glass cupola of the german parliament building was recently closed to visitors after media reports of a planned terror attack there , but the government insisted it was all precautionary and would not confirm or deny the media reports .
" even here , there is no transparency , " said pfeiffer .
" it 's not clear if this is really necessary or if this is just a demonstration by the internal security politicians to show they have everything under control . "
risk of violence adding to the stress in a police officer 's life is the growing trend of violence against police .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many police were needed to clear the way to gorleben this has been a subject of debate in german media and the police workers union for some time , but a 2010 study authored by pfeiffer at the criminal research institute has supported these speculations with concrete facts .
the study surveyed over 20,000 police officers in ten german states about violence they encountered on the job in the last five years .
pfeiffer said instances where an officer had to be taken off the job for at least seven days because of injuries sustained due to violence on the job had grown by 60 percent .
" someone who is stressed is less likely to react appropriately in a conflict situation than they normally would , " said pfeiffer .
" the risk - also due to being overworked - of sustaining a serious injury increases for that reason . "
use of bundeswehr troops one solution floated by klaus jansen , head of the association of german criminologists , is to use bundeswehr soldiers in a supporting role with police .
" we have to assume , that the exceptional use of additional police because of the current threat of terrorism will continue well into next year , " jansen said in an interview with the neue osnabruecker zeitung newspaper .
using bundeswehr troops to support normal police presents a legal question - it would require an amendment to the german constitution - but christian pfeiffer thinks there is a better solution .
he says if criminality - not a lack of resources or overburdened police officers - was addressed at a political level and could be reduced , then the current level of police officers in germany would be adequate for them to properly do their job .
pfeiffer thinks bundeswehr troops should - as they have in the past - only be used to support police in emergency situations such as floods .
author : matt zuvela editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warned that some dangers were being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nuclear waste shipment continues to spark determined protests the train shipment of nuclear waste to a storage site in northern germany has sparked massive protests and blockades .
the last stretch is to be completed on tuesday by trucks , but activists have vowed to block the way .
-lrb- 08.11.2010 -rrb- police use water cannons , tear gas on stuttgart train station opponents opponents of stuttgart 's planned train station renovation project have clashed with police in the city 's schlossgarten park , where 25 trees are to be cut down in connection with the project .
-lrb- 30.09.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live germany today - window on germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
police overworked and increasingly at risk , says new union chief -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 23.11.2010 police overworked and increasingly at risk , says new union chief großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police are often spread too thinly in germany a day after being elected as the new head of the german police workers ' union , bernhard witthaut said german police are spread too thin , overworked and increasingly at risk . bernhard witthaut , the newly-elected head of germany 's police workers union , had not even been in office for a full day before drawing attention to the overworked state of germany 's police force .
on monday , witthaut was elected by his colleagues at a national meeting of the police union to lead the organization , and tuesday morning , witthaut gave an interview with german public radio outlining some of the problems facing german police .
" in light of recent terror warnings and also situations where a large contingent of police has been necessary , we have reached the limits of our capacities , " witthaut said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : witthaut says police have reached their limits in recent weeks , security scares related to failed parcel bombs and media reports outlining a " bloodbath " massacre at the german parliament building has led the interior ministry to increase the presence of security forces at large gatherings and public transportation hubs .
last legs large-scale demonstrations have also required additional a heightened security presence .
the recent transport of nuclear waste to the gorleben storage facility in northern germany came with a price tag of around 50 million euros for security needed to clear protestors out of the way of the transport containers .
in september , demonstrations against a planned train station renovation project in stuttgart made headlines when police and protestors clashed violently .
meanwhile , cuts to police forces and hiring freezes in many states have led to police resources being spread too thin , said witthaut .
" they 're really on their last legs , " he said of germany 's police officers .
political scapegoats christian pfeiffer , director of the criminology research institute of lower saxony , says the current political situation in germany is n't making things any easier for police officers .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police action in stuttgart has been widely criticized " it 's a new problem that the police have to iron out difficulties when political decisions are made without adequate justification or explanation , " pfeiffer told deutsche welle .
" the police are turned into scapegoats when politicians make mistakes with the transparency of their decisions . "
terror warnings issued by the interior ministry , such as the one last week calling on german citizens to remain alert but not to panic , are sometimes vague .
the glass cupola of the german parliament building was recently closed to visitors after media reports of a planned terror attack there , but the government insisted it was all precautionary and would not confirm or deny the media reports .
" even here , there is no transparency , " said pfeiffer .
" it 's not clear if this is really necessary or if this is just a demonstration by the internal security politicians to show they have everything under control . "
risk of violence adding to the stress in a police officer 's life is the growing trend of violence against police .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many police were needed to clear the way to gorleben this has been a subject of debate in german media and the police workers union for some time , but a 2010 study authored by pfeiffer at the criminal research institute has supported these speculations with concrete facts .
the study surveyed over 20,000 police officers in ten german states about violence they encountered on the job in the last five years .
pfeiffer said instances where an officer had to be taken off the job for at least seven days because of injuries sustained due to violence on the job had grown by 60 percent .
" someone who is stressed is less likely to react appropriately in a conflict situation than they normally would , " said pfeiffer .
" the risk - also due to being overworked - of sustaining a serious injury increases for that reason . "
use of bundeswehr troops one solution floated by klaus jansen , head of the association of german criminologists , is to use bundeswehr soldiers in a supporting role with police .
" we have to assume , that the exceptional use of additional police because of the current threat of terrorism will continue well into next year , " jansen said in an interview with the neue osnabruecker zeitung newspaper .
using bundeswehr troops to support normal police presents a legal question - it would require an amendment to the german constitution - but christian pfeiffer thinks there is a better solution .
he says if criminality - not a lack of resources or overburdened police officers - was addressed at a political level and could be reduced , then the current level of police officers in germany would be adequate for them to properly do their job .
pfeiffer thinks bundeswehr troops should - as they have in the past - only be used to support police in emergency situations such as floods .
author : matt zuvela editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warned that some dangers were being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nuclear waste shipment continues to spark determined protests the train shipment of nuclear waste to a storage site in northern germany has sparked massive protests and blockades .
the last stretch is to be completed on tuesday by trucks , but activists have vowed to block the way .
-lrb- 08.11.2010 -rrb- police use water cannons , tear gas on stuttgart train station opponents opponents of stuttgart 's planned train station renovation project have clashed with police in the city 's schlossgarten park , where 25 trees are to be cut down in connection with the project .
-lrb- 30.09.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany - the business magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 23.11.2010 parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : social democrats put the emphasis on unity across the eu , the greens say ireland is a symbol of failed market liberalism and the liberals insist the goal of eurozone countries should be converging economic policies . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic listen to the report from christoph hasselbach in brussels .
07 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 23.11.2010 parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : social democrats put the emphasis on unity across the eu , the greens say ireland is a symbol of failed market liberalism and the liberals insist the goal of eurozone countries should be converging economic policies . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic listen to the report from christoph hasselbach in brussels .
07 dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 23.11.2010 parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : social democrats put the emphasis on unity across the eu , the greens say ireland is a symbol of failed market liberalism and the liberals insist the goal of eurozone countries should be converging economic policies . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic listen to the report from christoph hasselbach in brussels .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 23.11.2010 parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : social democrats put the emphasis on unity across the eu , the greens say ireland is a symbol of failed market liberalism and the liberals insist the goal of eurozone countries should be converging economic policies . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic listen to the report from christoph hasselbach in brussels .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 23.11.2010 us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraeus said his isaf troops have hard work ahead of them general david petraeus , the commander of nato 's isaf troops in afghanistan , has praised the role of the german military on a visit to berlin .
he also reiterated that security duties would be handed over to kabul by 2014 . us general and isaf commander in afghanistan david petraeus tried to couple optimism with realism on his state visit to berlin , reiterating that the alliance 's target was to hand over security responsibilities to afghan forces by 2014 , but also warning against a swift withdrawal from the country .
" it is of enormous importance that afghanistan not became a sanctuary for al qaeda or other extremists again , " petraeus told assembled reporters in a press conference with german defense minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg .
" the goal is to have afghan forces in the lead in security operations by the end of 2014 .
all our efforts will be aimed at helping afghanistan to develop the capacities to take on this mission throughout the country by that time . "
defense minister guttenberg was also cautious in his assessment of progress in afghanistan , as the isaf troops stationed there struggle against a resilient taliban insurgency .
" we 'll need to breathe deeply , " guttenberg said .
" i think the word ' patience ' will accompany us in these matters for some time . "
karzai criticized bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guttenberg had not met petraeus since the general took up the post both petraeus and guttenberg sought to address recent criticisms of new isaf tactics from afghan president hamid karzai .
karzai specifically pointed to the increasing numbers of night raids by troopers , calling their actions inappropriate and not conducive to reconciliation between western soldiers and afghan civilians .
" -lrb- afghan president karzai -rrb- has long expressed concerns about night raids , if they do n't get the individuals they are after , " petraeus said .
" but i was able to show him the statistics that indicate the very high rate of success of those operations . "
relations between karzai 's government in kabul and the west - not least the us - have become somewhat rocky of late , amid a string of critical comments from all sides .
guttenberg suggested that some of the afghan president 's comments that have caused tension among nato members might never have been intended for international consumption .
" i think it does n't do any political harm to tell president hamid karzai from time to time that statements made with the local population in mind may also have a considerable impact abroad , " the german defense minister said .
" this goes particularly for the political debate in those countries which have allied troops in afghanistan .
we talked about that during -lrb- last weekend 's -rrb- nato summit in lisbon , and i think there 's agreement that more caution and sensitivity will be needed in the future , " he added .
bundeswehr praised bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraues said german troops play a ' key role ' for isaf general petraeus , who is in charge of the isaf forces stationed in afghanistan , was on his first trip to meet with defense minister guttenberg since taking on the job in july .
he also thanked the german military , the bundeswehr , for its contribution in the country .
he praised chancellor merkel 's government 's decision to boost german troop levels in afghanistan to 5,000 , saying the bundeswehr was already performing a " central role " in the country , and that the troop increase would further improve germany 's image .
germany is currently the third largest contributor to the isaf mission in terms of troop numbers , behind only the us and the uk .
a total of roughly 130,000 isaf soldiers are serving in afghanistan .
author : hardy graupner -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : is nato withdrawal from afghanistan by 2014 realistic ?
nato confirmed at its summit in lisbon that it wanted to pull out of afghanistan by the end of 2014 , leaving the afghan security forces in control .
but deutsche welle 's ratbil shamel is skeptical about this aim .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nato to withdraw from afghanistan by 2014 nato nations have approved a plan to start pulling out front-line troops in afghanistan early in 2011 .
however , forces will remain in the most dangerous areas until 2014 , and likely stay in a supporting role beyond then .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- expert pleads for delinking of civilian , military operations in afghanistan europeans should argue for decoupling civilian from military operations in afghanistan at the upcoming nato summit , the head of the eu institute of security studies tells deutsche welle .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 23.11.2010 us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraeus said his isaf troops have hard work ahead of them general david petraeus , the commander of nato 's isaf troops in afghanistan , has praised the role of the german military on a visit to berlin .
he also reiterated that security duties would be handed over to kabul by 2014 . us general and isaf commander in afghanistan david petraeus tried to couple optimism with realism on his state visit to berlin , reiterating that the alliance 's target was to hand over security responsibilities to afghan forces by 2014 , but also warning against a swift withdrawal from the country .
" it is of enormous importance that afghanistan not became a sanctuary for al qaeda or other extremists again , " petraeus told assembled reporters in a press conference with german defense minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg .
" the goal is to have afghan forces in the lead in security operations by the end of 2014 .
all our efforts will be aimed at helping afghanistan to develop the capacities to take on this mission throughout the country by that time . "
defense minister guttenberg was also cautious in his assessment of progress in afghanistan , as the isaf troops stationed there struggle against a resilient taliban insurgency .
" we 'll need to breathe deeply , " guttenberg said .
" i think the word ' patience ' will accompany us in these matters for some time . "
karzai criticized bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guttenberg had not met petraeus since the general took up the post both petraeus and guttenberg sought to address recent criticisms of new isaf tactics from afghan president hamid karzai .
karzai specifically pointed to the increasing numbers of night raids by troopers , calling their actions inappropriate and not conducive to reconciliation between western soldiers and afghan civilians .
" -lrb- afghan president karzai -rrb- has long expressed concerns about night raids , if they do n't get the individuals they are after , " petraeus said .
" but i was able to show him the statistics that indicate the very high rate of success of those operations . "
relations between karzai 's government in kabul and the west - not least the us - have become somewhat rocky of late , amid a string of critical comments from all sides .
guttenberg suggested that some of the afghan president 's comments that have caused tension among nato members might never have been intended for international consumption .
" i think it does n't do any political harm to tell president hamid karzai from time to time that statements made with the local population in mind may also have a considerable impact abroad , " the german defense minister said .
" this goes particularly for the political debate in those countries which have allied troops in afghanistan .
we talked about that during -lrb- last weekend 's -rrb- nato summit in lisbon , and i think there 's agreement that more caution and sensitivity will be needed in the future , " he added .
bundeswehr praised bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraues said german troops play a ' key role ' for isaf general petraeus , who is in charge of the isaf forces stationed in afghanistan , was on his first trip to meet with defense minister guttenberg since taking on the job in july .
he also thanked the german military , the bundeswehr , for its contribution in the country .
he praised chancellor merkel 's government 's decision to boost german troop levels in afghanistan to 5,000 , saying the bundeswehr was already performing a " central role " in the country , and that the troop increase would further improve germany 's image .
germany is currently the third largest contributor to the isaf mission in terms of troop numbers , behind only the us and the uk .
a total of roughly 130,000 isaf soldiers are serving in afghanistan .
author : hardy graupner -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : is nato withdrawal from afghanistan by 2014 realistic ?
nato confirmed at its summit in lisbon that it wanted to pull out of afghanistan by the end of 2014 , leaving the afghan security forces in control .
but deutsche welle 's ratbil shamel is skeptical about this aim .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nato to withdraw from afghanistan by 2014 nato nations have approved a plan to start pulling out front-line troops in afghanistan early in 2011 .
however , forces will remain in the most dangerous areas until 2014 , and likely stay in a supporting role beyond then .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- expert pleads for delinking of civilian , military operations in afghanistan europeans should argue for decoupling civilian from military operations in afghanistan at the upcoming nato summit , the head of the eu institute of security studies tells deutsche welle .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 23.11.2010 us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraeus said his isaf troops have hard work ahead of them general david petraeus , the commander of nato 's isaf troops in afghanistan , has praised the role of the german military on a visit to berlin .
he also reiterated that security duties would be handed over to kabul by 2014 . us general and isaf commander in afghanistan david petraeus tried to couple optimism with realism on his state visit to berlin , reiterating that the alliance 's target was to hand over security responsibilities to afghan forces by 2014 , but also warning against a swift withdrawal from the country .
" it is of enormous importance that afghanistan not became a sanctuary for al qaeda or other extremists again , " petraeus told assembled reporters in a press conference with german defense minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg .
" the goal is to have afghan forces in the lead in security operations by the end of 2014 .
all our efforts will be aimed at helping afghanistan to develop the capacities to take on this mission throughout the country by that time . "
defense minister guttenberg was also cautious in his assessment of progress in afghanistan , as the isaf troops stationed there struggle against a resilient taliban insurgency .
" we 'll need to breathe deeply , " guttenberg said .
" i think the word ' patience ' will accompany us in these matters for some time . "
karzai criticized bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guttenberg had not met petraeus since the general took up the post both petraeus and guttenberg sought to address recent criticisms of new isaf tactics from afghan president hamid karzai .
karzai specifically pointed to the increasing numbers of night raids by troopers , calling their actions inappropriate and not conducive to reconciliation between western soldiers and afghan civilians .
" -lrb- afghan president karzai -rrb- has long expressed concerns about night raids , if they do n't get the individuals they are after , " petraeus said .
" but i was able to show him the statistics that indicate the very high rate of success of those operations . "
relations between karzai 's government in kabul and the west - not least the us - have become somewhat rocky of late , amid a string of critical comments from all sides .
guttenberg suggested that some of the afghan president 's comments that have caused tension among nato members might never have been intended for international consumption .
" i think it does n't do any political harm to tell president hamid karzai from time to time that statements made with the local population in mind may also have a considerable impact abroad , " the german defense minister said .
" this goes particularly for the political debate in those countries which have allied troops in afghanistan .
we talked about that during -lrb- last weekend 's -rrb- nato summit in lisbon , and i think there 's agreement that more caution and sensitivity will be needed in the future , " he added .
bundeswehr praised bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraues said german troops play a ' key role ' for isaf general petraeus , who is in charge of the isaf forces stationed in afghanistan , was on his first trip to meet with defense minister guttenberg since taking on the job in july .
he also thanked the german military , the bundeswehr , for its contribution in the country .
he praised chancellor merkel 's government 's decision to boost german troop levels in afghanistan to 5,000 , saying the bundeswehr was already performing a " central role " in the country , and that the troop increase would further improve germany 's image .
germany is currently the third largest contributor to the isaf mission in terms of troop numbers , behind only the us and the uk .
a total of roughly 130,000 isaf soldiers are serving in afghanistan .
author : hardy graupner -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : is nato withdrawal from afghanistan by 2014 realistic ?
nato confirmed at its summit in lisbon that it wanted to pull out of afghanistan by the end of 2014 , leaving the afghan security forces in control .
but deutsche welle 's ratbil shamel is skeptical about this aim .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nato to withdraw from afghanistan by 2014 nato nations have approved a plan to start pulling out front-line troops in afghanistan early in 2011 .
however , forces will remain in the most dangerous areas until 2014 , and likely stay in a supporting role beyond then .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- expert pleads for delinking of civilian , military operations in afghanistan europeans should argue for decoupling civilian from military operations in afghanistan at the upcoming nato summit , the head of the eu institute of security studies tells deutsche welle .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live motor mobil we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 23.11.2010 us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraeus said his isaf troops have hard work ahead of them general david petraeus , the commander of nato 's isaf troops in afghanistan , has praised the role of the german military on a visit to berlin .
he also reiterated that security duties would be handed over to kabul by 2014 . us general and isaf commander in afghanistan david petraeus tried to couple optimism with realism on his state visit to berlin , reiterating that the alliance 's target was to hand over security responsibilities to afghan forces by 2014 , but also warning against a swift withdrawal from the country .
" it is of enormous importance that afghanistan not became a sanctuary for al qaeda or other extremists again , " petraeus told assembled reporters in a press conference with german defense minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg .
" the goal is to have afghan forces in the lead in security operations by the end of 2014 .
all our efforts will be aimed at helping afghanistan to develop the capacities to take on this mission throughout the country by that time . "
defense minister guttenberg was also cautious in his assessment of progress in afghanistan , as the isaf troops stationed there struggle against a resilient taliban insurgency .
" we 'll need to breathe deeply , " guttenberg said .
" i think the word ' patience ' will accompany us in these matters for some time . "
karzai criticized bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guttenberg had not met petraeus since the general took up the post both petraeus and guttenberg sought to address recent criticisms of new isaf tactics from afghan president hamid karzai .
karzai specifically pointed to the increasing numbers of night raids by troopers , calling their actions inappropriate and not conducive to reconciliation between western soldiers and afghan civilians .
" -lrb- afghan president karzai -rrb- has long expressed concerns about night raids , if they do n't get the individuals they are after , " petraeus said .
" but i was able to show him the statistics that indicate the very high rate of success of those operations . "
relations between karzai 's government in kabul and the west - not least the us - have become somewhat rocky of late , amid a string of critical comments from all sides .
guttenberg suggested that some of the afghan president 's comments that have caused tension among nato members might never have been intended for international consumption .
" i think it does n't do any political harm to tell president hamid karzai from time to time that statements made with the local population in mind may also have a considerable impact abroad , " the german defense minister said .
" this goes particularly for the political debate in those countries which have allied troops in afghanistan .
we talked about that during -lrb- last weekend 's -rrb- nato summit in lisbon , and i think there 's agreement that more caution and sensitivity will be needed in the future , " he added .
bundeswehr praised bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraues said german troops play a ' key role ' for isaf general petraeus , who is in charge of the isaf forces stationed in afghanistan , was on his first trip to meet with defense minister guttenberg since taking on the job in july .
he also thanked the german military , the bundeswehr , for its contribution in the country .
he praised chancellor merkel 's government 's decision to boost german troop levels in afghanistan to 5,000 , saying the bundeswehr was already performing a " central role " in the country , and that the troop increase would further improve germany 's image .
germany is currently the third largest contributor to the isaf mission in terms of troop numbers , behind only the us and the uk .
a total of roughly 130,000 isaf soldiers are serving in afghanistan .
author : hardy graupner -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : is nato withdrawal from afghanistan by 2014 realistic ?
nato confirmed at its summit in lisbon that it wanted to pull out of afghanistan by the end of 2014 , leaving the afghan security forces in control .
but deutsche welle 's ratbil shamel is skeptical about this aim .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nato to withdraw from afghanistan by 2014 nato nations have approved a plan to start pulling out front-line troops in afghanistan early in 2011 .
however , forces will remain in the most dangerous areas until 2014 , and likely stay in a supporting role beyond then .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- expert pleads for delinking of civilian , military operations in afghanistan europeans should argue for decoupling civilian from military operations in afghanistan at the upcoming nato summit , the head of the eu institute of security studies tells deutsche welle .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- feedback is the afghan withdrawal target of 2014 realistic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live politik direkt we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german jewish leader receives major honor -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 23.11.2010 german jewish leader receives major honor großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : knobloch survived the holocaust as a child in germany the outgoing president of germany 's central council of jews in germany , charlotte knobloch , has been awarded the large federal cross of merit with star , one of the highest honors available in germany . german president christian wulff gave one of the highest orders of merit available to the country 's jewish leader on tuesday , praising charlotte knobloch and her term of over four years at the head of the central council of jews in germany .
" we are honoring a woman of whom our entire country can be proud , and who is therefore receiving one of this country 's particularly high honors - along with our gratitude and admiration , " the german president said at the ceremony in berlin .
knobloch , 78 , survived the nazi era as a child , hiding with a sympathetic german family .
she has held several leading positions in the german jewish community since the 1980s , and took over from paul spiegel as the president of the central council for jews in 2006 .
" it 's thanks to people like charlotte knobloch , that there is such a thing as reconciliation ; that we were able to set off on a path towards a new collective life , a new normality .
we will continue along that path . "
knobloch has been awarded the large federal cross of merit with star , one of the highest orders available to civilians in germany .
" last eyewitness to leave " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wulff said all of germany could be proud of knobloch 's achievements knobloch will not stand for reelection when the central council for jews votes on a new president on november , 28 ; former vice president dieter graumann is considered her likely replacement .
graumann , born in israel in 1950 , would be the first post-war german jewish leader not to have lived through the holocaust .
" with the departure of charlotte knobloch , the last eyewitness will be leaving the presidential office at the central council for jews .
that is certainly a break with history in german jewish culture , " president wulff said in his speech honoring knobloch .
" but this change will not mean that anything is forgotten .
we all well know the obligations we have , not just to the victims of the past , but also to our future offspring . "
knobloch also discussed this prospect in a recent interview with the mannheimer morgen newspaper , but agreed that there was no danger of the holocaust being forgotten in germany .
" the next generation has still grown up with the history of the holocaust , even if we -lrb- german society -rrb- did n't really talk about it for decades , " knobloch said .
" nowadays , jews are accepted in the mainstream of german society , something that for decades was not the case . "
one of the issues on which knobloch concentrated during her term in office was the integration of jewish immigrants from the former soviet union , a fast-growing group with increasing influence in germany 's jewish community .
wulff told knobloch in the ceremony that the large federal cross of merit with star symbolized germany 's enduring gratitude for - and commitment to - her life 's work .
author : mark hallam -lrb- apn , dpa -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de being honored by the fatherland : germany 's federal cross of merit where the uk has its knighthood , and france its legion of honour , germany rewards its loyal citizens with the federal cross of merit .
its most famous recent recipient was the national soccer team coach joachim loew .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- central council for jews in germany celebrates 60 successful years the central council for jews in germany was founded on july 19 , 1950 .
since then it has built up a jewish community of over 100,000 in germany and has been a leading moral voice when it comes to the country 's nazi past .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- german jews ordain first female rabbi since world war ii for the first time since 1935 , germany 's jewish community has ordained a female rabbi .
alina treiger , 31 , will have the same rights and responsibilities as her male colleagues .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- feedback could germany 's central council for jews change when headed by someone who did n't live through the holocaust ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
travel passau is called the three river city , but it is just as famous for its baroque splendor .
passau - baroque facades and vibrant arts watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german jewish leader receives major honor -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 23.11.2010 german jewish leader receives major honor großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : knobloch survived the holocaust as a child in germany the outgoing president of germany 's central council of jews in germany , charlotte knobloch , has been awarded the large federal cross of merit with star , one of the highest honors available in germany . german president christian wulff gave one of the highest orders of merit available to the country 's jewish leader on tuesday , praising charlotte knobloch and her term of over four years at the head of the central council of jews in germany .
" we are honoring a woman of whom our entire country can be proud , and who is therefore receiving one of this country 's particularly high honors - along with our gratitude and admiration , " the german president said at the ceremony in berlin .
knobloch , 78 , survived the nazi era as a child , hiding with a sympathetic german family .
she has held several leading positions in the german jewish community since the 1980s , and took over from paul spiegel as the president of the central council for jews in 2006 .
" it 's thanks to people like charlotte knobloch , that there is such a thing as reconciliation ; that we were able to set off on a path towards a new collective life , a new normality .
we will continue along that path . "
knobloch has been awarded the large federal cross of merit with star , one of the highest orders available to civilians in germany .
" last eyewitness to leave " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wulff said all of germany could be proud of knobloch 's achievements knobloch will not stand for reelection when the central council for jews votes on a new president on november , 28 ; former vice president dieter graumann is considered her likely replacement .
graumann , born in israel in 1950 , would be the first post-war german jewish leader not to have lived through the holocaust .
" with the departure of charlotte knobloch , the last eyewitness will be leaving the presidential office at the central council for jews .
that is certainly a break with history in german jewish culture , " president wulff said in his speech honoring knobloch .
" but this change will not mean that anything is forgotten .
we all well know the obligations we have , not just to the victims of the past , but also to our future offspring . "
knobloch also discussed this prospect in a recent interview with the mannheimer morgen newspaper , but agreed that there was no danger of the holocaust being forgotten in germany .
" the next generation has still grown up with the history of the holocaust , even if we -lrb- german society -rrb- did n't really talk about it for decades , " knobloch said .
" nowadays , jews are accepted in the mainstream of german society , something that for decades was not the case . "
one of the issues on which knobloch concentrated during her term in office was the integration of jewish immigrants from the former soviet union , a fast-growing group with increasing influence in germany 's jewish community .
wulff told knobloch in the ceremony that the large federal cross of merit with star symbolized germany 's enduring gratitude for - and commitment to - her life 's work .
author : mark hallam -lrb- apn , dpa -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de being honored by the fatherland : germany 's federal cross of merit where the uk has its knighthood , and france its legion of honour , germany rewards its loyal citizens with the federal cross of merit .
its most famous recent recipient was the national soccer team coach joachim loew .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- central council for jews in germany celebrates 60 successful years the central council for jews in germany was founded on july 19 , 1950 .
since then it has built up a jewish community of over 100,000 in germany and has been a leading moral voice when it comes to the country 's nazi past .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- german jews ordain first female rabbi since world war ii for the first time since 1935 , germany 's jewish community has ordained a female rabbi .
alina treiger , 31 , will have the same rights and responsibilities as her male colleagues .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- feedback could germany 's central council for jews change when headed by someone who did n't live through the holocaust ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german jewish leader receives major honor -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 23.11.2010 german jewish leader receives major honor großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : knobloch survived the holocaust as a child in germany the outgoing president of germany 's central council of jews in germany , charlotte knobloch , has been awarded the large federal cross of merit with star , one of the highest honors available in germany . german president christian wulff gave one of the highest orders of merit available to the country 's jewish leader on tuesday , praising charlotte knobloch and her term of over four years at the head of the central council of jews in germany .
" we are honoring a woman of whom our entire country can be proud , and who is therefore receiving one of this country 's particularly high honors - along with our gratitude and admiration , " the german president said at the ceremony in berlin .
knobloch , 78 , survived the nazi era as a child , hiding with a sympathetic german family .
she has held several leading positions in the german jewish community since the 1980s , and took over from paul spiegel as the president of the central council for jews in 2006 .
" it 's thanks to people like charlotte knobloch , that there is such a thing as reconciliation ; that we were able to set off on a path towards a new collective life , a new normality .
we will continue along that path . "
knobloch has been awarded the large federal cross of merit with star , one of the highest orders available to civilians in germany .
" last eyewitness to leave " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wulff said all of germany could be proud of knobloch 's achievements knobloch will not stand for reelection when the central council for jews votes on a new president on november , 28 ; former vice president dieter graumann is considered her likely replacement .
graumann , born in israel in 1950 , would be the first post-war german jewish leader not to have lived through the holocaust .
" with the departure of charlotte knobloch , the last eyewitness will be leaving the presidential office at the central council for jews .
that is certainly a break with history in german jewish culture , " president wulff said in his speech honoring knobloch .
" but this change will not mean that anything is forgotten .
we all well know the obligations we have , not just to the victims of the past , but also to our future offspring . "
knobloch also discussed this prospect in a recent interview with the mannheimer morgen newspaper , but agreed that there was no danger of the holocaust being forgotten in germany .
" the next generation has still grown up with the history of the holocaust , even if we -lrb- german society -rrb- did n't really talk about it for decades , " knobloch said .
" nowadays , jews are accepted in the mainstream of german society , something that for decades was not the case . "
one of the issues on which knobloch concentrated during her term in office was the integration of jewish immigrants from the former soviet union , a fast-growing group with increasing influence in germany 's jewish community .
wulff told knobloch in the ceremony that the large federal cross of merit with star symbolized germany 's enduring gratitude for - and commitment to - her life 's work .
author : mark hallam -lrb- apn , dpa -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de being honored by the fatherland : germany 's federal cross of merit where the uk has its knighthood , and france its legion of honour , germany rewards its loyal citizens with the federal cross of merit .
its most famous recent recipient was the national soccer team coach joachim loew .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- central council for jews in germany celebrates 60 successful years the central council for jews in germany was founded on july 19 , 1950 .
since then it has built up a jewish community of over 100,000 in germany and has been a leading moral voice when it comes to the country 's nazi past .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- german jews ordain first female rabbi since world war ii for the first time since 1935 , germany 's jewish community has ordained a female rabbi .
alina treiger , 31 , will have the same rights and responsibilities as her male colleagues .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german jewish leader receives major honor -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 23.11.2010 german jewish leader receives major honor großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : knobloch survived the holocaust as a child in germany the outgoing president of germany 's central council of jews in germany , charlotte knobloch , has been awarded the large federal cross of merit with star , one of the highest honors available in germany . german president christian wulff gave one of the highest orders of merit available to the country 's jewish leader on tuesday , praising charlotte knobloch and her term of over four years at the head of the central council of jews in germany .
" we are honoring a woman of whom our entire country can be proud , and who is therefore receiving one of this country 's particularly high honors - along with our gratitude and admiration , " the german president said at the ceremony in berlin .
knobloch , 78 , survived the nazi era as a child , hiding with a sympathetic german family .
she has held several leading positions in the german jewish community since the 1980s , and took over from paul spiegel as the president of the central council for jews in 2006 .
" it 's thanks to people like charlotte knobloch , that there is such a thing as reconciliation ; that we were able to set off on a path towards a new collective life , a new normality .
we will continue along that path . "
knobloch has been awarded the large federal cross of merit with star , one of the highest orders available to civilians in germany .
" last eyewitness to leave " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wulff said all of germany could be proud of knobloch 's achievements knobloch will not stand for reelection when the central council for jews votes on a new president on november , 28 ; former vice president dieter graumann is considered her likely replacement .
graumann , born in israel in 1950 , would be the first post-war german jewish leader not to have lived through the holocaust .
" with the departure of charlotte knobloch , the last eyewitness will be leaving the presidential office at the central council for jews .
that is certainly a break with history in german jewish culture , " president wulff said in his speech honoring knobloch .
" but this change will not mean that anything is forgotten .
we all well know the obligations we have , not just to the victims of the past , but also to our future offspring . "
knobloch also discussed this prospect in a recent interview with the mannheimer morgen newspaper , but agreed that there was no danger of the holocaust being forgotten in germany .
" the next generation has still grown up with the history of the holocaust , even if we -lrb- german society -rrb- did n't really talk about it for decades , " knobloch said .
" nowadays , jews are accepted in the mainstream of german society , something that for decades was not the case . "
one of the issues on which knobloch concentrated during her term in office was the integration of jewish immigrants from the former soviet union , a fast-growing group with increasing influence in germany 's jewish community .
wulff told knobloch in the ceremony that the large federal cross of merit with star symbolized germany 's enduring gratitude for - and commitment to - her life 's work .
author : mark hallam -lrb- apn , dpa -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de being honored by the fatherland : germany 's federal cross of merit where the uk has its knighthood , and france its legion of honour , germany rewards its loyal citizens with the federal cross of merit .
its most famous recent recipient was the national soccer team coach joachim loew .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- central council for jews in germany celebrates 60 successful years the central council for jews in germany was founded on july 19 , 1950 .
since then it has built up a jewish community of over 100,000 in germany and has been a leading moral voice when it comes to the country 's nazi past .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- german jews ordain first female rabbi since world war ii for the first time since 1935 , germany 's jewish community has ordained a female rabbi .
alina treiger , 31 , will have the same rights and responsibilities as her male colleagues .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
death sentence puts pakistan 's blasphemy law in the spotlight -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 23.11.2010 death sentence puts pakistan 's blasphemy law in the spotlight großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : asia bibi 's family members are hoping for a presidential pardon pakistan 's opinion makers are engaged in a heated debate about the country 's blasphemy law after a 45-year-old christian woman was sentenced to death . pakistan 's blasphemy law has once again become a topic of heated discussion after the recent handing down of the death sentence to asia bibi .
the 45-year-old christian woman was arrested in june last year after her neighbors complained that she had made derogatory remarks about prophet mohammed .
blasphemy and lynch justice when it comes to blasphemy in the islamic republic of pakistan , the law is clear - it is a crime punishable by death to speak ill of islam and prophet mohammed .
although hundreds have been convicted of blasphemy , nobody in pakistan has ever been executed for the offence .
most convictions are retracted after the accused makes an appeal .
however , angry mobs have killed people accused of blasphemy .
in july this year , two christian brothers were gunned down in faisalabad after being accused of writing a sacrilegious letter against the prophet .
fareed ahmad pracha from the muslim movement jamaat i islami is an ardent defender of the blasphemy law .
" we have false murder cases in our country , false witnesses and it is possible that a case may be wrong , " he said . "
" we just want to say that the law should be enforced properly , there should not be any change made into the blasphemy law , we will not tolerate or accept this .
if you make way even for a single change in the law , then there will be a number of changes , whereas there has never been a case where anyone has been punished . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : there have been demonstrations for asia bibi all over the world , including in pakistan call for repeal of the law asia bibi ’ s sentencing to death has triggered an outcry among human rights groups and the international community .
some pakistani politicians have also called on the president to pardon asia bibi .
bibi herself has said that she was involved in a dispute after some women laborers she was in the fields with said they would not drink water from the same bowl because she was not a muslim .
she says they slapped her and pulled her hair .
they apparently later went to the police and accused her of making derogatory remarks about prophet mohammed .
sisal chaudhary , a local christian leader in pakistan , is angry about discrimination against the christian minority in pakistan .
" many innocent people have been killed , " he pointed out .
" people who did not even have a case registered against them .
how can you stop this ?
there is only one solution to this and that is for this law to be completely repealed .
many people have suffered , many settlements have been razed down because of this law , many people have spent 10 or 12 years in prison .
it is wrong to say that no one has been really killed because of this law .
now they want to start hanging people but they have been killing people for a long time . "
shahbaz bhatti , pakistan 's minister for minority affairs , has now been commissioned by president asif ali zardari to look into the case .
a christian himself , he has said it was a personal dispute and asia bibi did not commit blasphemy .
he is due to submit the findings of his report on wednesday .
author : manasi golapakrishnan editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- irish blasphemy law triggers protests blasphemy is now a crime in ireland punishable by a fine .
atheists and the osce have called on dublin to repeal the law as quickly as possible , but some countries , such as pakistan , think it is worth copying .
-lrb- 14.01.2010 -rrb- german-iranian author receives culture prize after religious row after a lot of controversy , the hessian culture prize 2009 has been presented .
one of the winners , navid kermani , received an official apology for being temporarily denied the award .
-lrb- 27.11.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 reader response feedback our readers and asia compact listeners love to send in their views .
here 's a selection .
global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media militancy there have been three militant attacks on the pakistan navy in karachi in less than a week .
former law minister of pakistan , iqbal haider , admits that his country 's security establishment is double-minded about the taliban border clashes a bitter dispute over border areas flares up again between cambodia and thailand .
dw 's robert carmichael explains how asean tries to mediate between its two members listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 28.04.11 cambodia and thailand sign a ceasefire after days of border clashes militants in pakistan 's port city karachi have targetted navy again former us president carter ends his north korean tour podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile prison break about 475 prisoners , mostly taliban fighters , managed to break out of a jail in kandahar on monday .
thomas ruttig of the afghanistan analysis network believes that the afghan government is corrupt and incompetent to run its affairs april asia quiz quiz of the month justice hate crime twelve men suspected of attacking members of the ahmadiyah community face trial in indonesia .
newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think google street view is intrusive ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think google street view is intrusive ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread -pipe- protecting biodiversity in suriname -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.04.2011 home europe making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features wind power solar power hydropower biodiversity -pipe- 23.11.2010 threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : leatherback turtles have existed for millions of years the earth is home to some 20 million species , and many more that scientists believe have never been identified .
they say species extinctions are on the rise , with repercussions for mankind . the leatherback turtle lives on the coast of suriname .
weighing up to 700 kilos -lrb- 1,540 pounds -rrb- and as long as 2.5 meters -lrb- 8 feet -rrb- , it 's the world 's largest sea turtle .
but sheer size is n't enough to prevent it from dying out .
its reproductive patterns are highly sensitive to rising temperatures : sands in many areas are today so scorching that eggs can not survive , and moreover , sand temperatures determine the sex ratio of turtle eggs .
if the sand in which they lay their eggs gets too hot , more female turtles are produced – which destroys the natural gender balance and endangers breeding success over the long term .
a further problem is loss of nesting and feeding habitats due to rising sea-levels .
taken together , all this means their numbers are declining dramatically and they have been added to the international union for conservation of nature -lrb- iucn -rrb- " red list " of threatened species .
according to experts , if no action is taken to protect leatherbacks , these reptiles , which have existed for over 65 million years , will disappear in our lifetime .
climate change and biodiversity bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : clownfish are losing their sense of smell the united nations declared 2010 to be the international year of biodiversity , with research showing that , via global warming , man is responsible for the greatest extinction of wildlife since the demise of the dinosaurs .
one-fifth of the world 's vertebrates face extinction , according to the latest figures released by the iucn .
in fact , the role played by global warming is a matter of keen debate .
many scientists believe that other factors contribute , such as poaching , and the fact that the consequences of climate change are intensified by pollution .
climate change is also having severe impacts on migratory species .
that is also likely to be increasingly disruptive , experts say .
" these days , you come across species in places where they 've never been before , " said wendy foden , of the species program run by the iucn in london .
" some species are migrating to colder regions , and in south america , that means further south and higher altitudes . "
marine life is equally affected but the animals have fewer migratory options .
increased co2 levels in the atmosphere are changing ocean ph levels , a process which alters many species ' habitat .
what it means for mankind helen foden cites the example of the clownfish .
“ when the water is more acidic than usual , clownfish start to lose their sense of smell , " she said .
like many reef and coastal fish , clownfish are swept off their home reefs into the open ocean as babies , and use their acute senses of smell to find their way back .
the tiny larvae of many coastal fish rely on scent cues in the water to help locate adult habitat .
iucn experts now hope to use the popularity of the clownfish to raise awareness of how climate change is impacting ecosystems .
" thanks to the movie ‘ finding nemo , ' everyone is familiar with clownfish , " said foden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the tiny noblella pygmaea mini frog was only discovered in 2009 species extinction has an immediate effect on mankind .
according to a recent survey carried out in germany , two-thirds of those questioned said that they would be personally affected by biodiversity loss , but mainly in terms of their leisure-time activities .
in fact , the repercussions will be significantly further-reaching .
the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity -lrb- teeb -rrb- study is a major international initiative set up to draw attention to the global economic benefits of biodiversity and to highlight the growing costs of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation . it puts the worldwide economic value of the pollination service provided by insect pollinators , for example , at some € 153 billion -lrb- $ 210 billion -rrb- – proof that species ' extinction is about far more than leisure activities .
however , the teeb study has been unable to give a precise figure to the cost of loss of biodiversity , simply because many species have never been identified . unknown species bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south america is believed to be home to the world 's greatest biodiversity some 1.9 million species are officially catalogued , but this is believed to be just a small percentage of the species that actually exist .
researchers estimate that about 100 species die out every year , and since their function in the ecosystem is not necessarily known , scientists are not in a position to identify the consequences of their extinction .
gudrun mernitz is co-founder of the resource center for marine organisms .
she and her team have isolated several hundred substances out of marine micro-organisms , which are now being examined as potential components in pharmaceuticals . " several might be active against types of cancer , " said mernitz .
in the past 10 years , some 6 percent of medicines developed were derived from natural substances , says rolf hoemke from the association of research-based pharmaceuticals companies .
" it might be anything , even the intestines of a bug , " he said .
the pharmaceutical potential of biodiversity should not underestimated .
researchers from conservation international take regular field trips to document biodiversity and to locate where the establishment of conservation areas would be most constructive .
the idea is that by protecting animal and plant species from pollution and poaching , they may adjust over time to climate change .
author : marion huetter -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de extinction threatens over one fifth of world 's plants the world 's plants are facing an extinction rate on a par with mammals .
one in five plant species is at threat of dying out , says a new study released ahead of the un 's biodiversity summit in japan in october .
-lrb- 29.09.2010 -rrb- russia convenes leaders ' summit to save tigers from extinction the fate of the world 's 3,500 wild tigers is the theme at a conference in russia this week .
leaders from the 13 nations with wild tigers are meeting amid claims that the animals could be extinct within a dozen years .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think should be done to preserve biodiversity ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 main page english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv .
global 3000 04.04.2011 edition as video on demand radio listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 31.03.11 -rrb- the living planet page get connected global ideas : stay up to date facebook twitter videos on youtube podcast via rss-feed podcast via itunes our planet dw 's in depth reporting on environement and development issues .
click here © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 23.11.2010 ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cowen has come under pressure from all sides irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf . ireland 's prime minister brian cowen pulled the country out of the frying pan of debt on sunday , only to find himself plunged into the fire of a snap election on monday .
after securing a financial rescue believed to be worth up to 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- in loans from the european union and the international monetary fund , the fianna fail party leader was forced to promise early elections as his political friends and enemies both turned on him .
" it is my intention at the conclusion of the budgetary process , with the enactment of the necessary legislation in the new year , to then seek the dissolution of parliament , " prime minister brian cowen told reporters in a hastily-called press conference .
cowen was effectively yielding to his government 's junior coalition partners , the greens , who called for elections in january , although he did n't promise that they would be held in that month .
the two main opposition parties , labour and fine gael , had demanded an immediate dissolution of parliament instead .
" what is needed now is an immediate general election so that a new government , with a clear parliamentary majority , can prepare the four-year economic plan , complete negotiations with the eu and imf and frame a budget for 2011 , " fine gael leader enda kenny wrote in an e-mailed statement .
first things first bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland requested help with its runaway debts on sunday cowen 's government is set to publish a four-year economic plan on wednesday and a new , cost-cutting budget on december 7 - a process that is crucial to secure loan payments from the eu and imf .
cowen said these processes would have to be completed before the dissolution of parliament , so as to protect ireland from financial collapse .
the junior coalition partners , the greens , pledged to support the government only until january ; party leader john gormley called on cowen to name a date for elections in the new year , saying the irish people needed " political certainty " and had been " misled and betrayed " by the prime minister 's cabinet .
for about a week , ireland had insisted that it could recover its economy without outside help , but caved in on sunday and requested a bailout from the eu and imf , following in the footsteps of greece earlier this year .
the country faces a budget deficit of 32 percent of gross domestic product , a figure which has ballooned because of the government bailout of its largest moneylender , anglo-irish bank .
even without this extra expense , the country 's 2010 shortfall would have comfortably exceeded the eu 's prescribed limit of 3 percent of gdp .
tough sell for european leaders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel may struggle to convince her party and her people that germany should foot part of the irish bill german chancellor angela merkel said on monday that the irish rescue was " positive overall , " because under the terms of the new deal , dublin would be forced to obey terms set by the eu and imf .
merkel said the rescue package was necessary to stabilize the european single currency , the euro .
a similar loan package for greece earlier this year , the first of its kind , was particularly unpopular in germany , not least among merkel 's conservative christian democratic union .
britain 's cash-strapped government , which is implementing its own series of tough austerity measures , also came under fire for contributing to the irish rescue , but the government defended the action .
" ireland is a friend in need , and we are here to help , " the conservative chancellor of the exchequer , george osborne said .
also on monday , the credit ratings agency moody 's said it would probably downgrade ireland 's sovereign debt by several notches in light of the eu-imf rescue .
author : mark hallam -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- eu agrees bailout for ireland eu finance ministers have agreed on a bailout fund for ireland to tackle the country 's huge budget deficit and save its banking sector .
it 's the second eu bailout package this year .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- germany denies pressuring ireland over business tax a german government spokesman said ireland should be allowed to determine its own corporation tax rate , despite recent pressure from a senior finance expert in chancellor angela merkel 's party .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic what is the real price of aid for ireland 's government ? -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- the people of ireland face tough times -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- how the rescue package works -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- feedback has cowen made the right move , and did he have a choice ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds one to one with composer brett dean listen live postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.11.2010 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 23.11.2010 portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portugal is seen as a future candidate for help portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next . portuguese prime minister jose socrates said on monday that his country 's economy remained robust and that there was no need for lisbon to ask for a financial rescue package .
the comments came after ireland conceded in agreeing to apply for a financial bailout program from the european union and international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portuguese prime minister socrates welcomed the irish acceptance of help portugal is high on the list of possible future rescue package recipients .
however , socrates said that his country 's financial system was performing well and said that its level of public debt - expected to be 7.3 percent for 2010 - was in line with the eu average .
" there are no links between portugal and ireland , " said socrates .
" i 've heard a lot of talk of the imf .
the country does not have any need for aid . "
the prime minister said he hoped that the irish acceptance of a financial package , which follows that of greece earlier in the year , would reassure nervous lending markets .
" i hope that the fact that ireland has asked for european union funds will permit the situation on the markets to return to normal , because portugal is feeling the effects of contagion very much , " said socrates .
lisbon keen to stay in driving seat like the irish administration , which had been reluctant to seek assistance , portugal 's socialist government is keen to avoid the need for outside help and any resulting loss of sovereignty .
such a course of action could prove unpopular with the electorate , with many older voters remembering traumatic interventions by the imf in the 1970s and 1980s .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish rescue deal follows a bailout for greece earlier this year this led to public spending being slashed at a time when the welfare system was too insufficient to provide proper protection for those affected .
however , some believe that both the imf 's approach and the situation of a more developed portugal in 2010 mean that a bailout is not so unthinkable .
" i think the mood against the imf is changing slightly , " economist pedro lains told deutsche welle .
" you see people who are responsible - officials and those connected to the opposition social democratic party - now they are changing their discourse slightly : they 're saying it is not a drama , that if it comes maybe it 's necessary . "
the center-right social democrat opposition has said it will not vote against the state budget for 2011 .
included in the budget are plans to cut public sector salaries and narrow the deficit to 4.6 percent of gdp .
away from parliament , a general strike was planned for wednesday - the first in two decades to be called by both of portugal 's two main trade union federations .
spain also claims to be different in neighboring spain , another country viewed as likely to need help , prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero said there were differences with the irish situation .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland 's prime minister is facing elections after the budget is approved zapatero 's socialist party 's organizational secretary , marcelino iglesias , quoted the premier as saying that bank stress tests during the summer - to assess the preparedness of banks for another financial crisis - had shown that the spanish financial sector was strong .
dublin 's economic woes stem in large part from the necessity to provide its own multi-billion euro financial aid plan to the troubled anglo-irish bank .
a spokesman for the eu 's economics commissioner also ruled out the risk of ireland 's problems precipitating a domino effect .
" there are no analogies to be made ; the irish case is very specific , " spokesman amadeu altafaj told reporters in brussels .
" the decisions concerning ireland are also meant to stop any possible tension and contagion to other economies , " he added .
the dublin rescue package - which could amount to as much as 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- - was agreed on sunday .
author : alison roberts , richard connor -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- portuguese government seals deal on austerity budget portugal 's minority socialist government has reached a deal with the country 's center-right opposition to introduce an austerity budget .
the agreement is seen as crucial step in averting political and financial chaos .
-lrb- 31.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic portugal could be the next candidate for financial aid -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- feedback are more countries likely to need help to reassure markets ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle betancourt book sparks controversy in france quo vadis bosnia ?
technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers uk prepares for the pope it simply is n't cricket europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 23.11.2010 portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portugal is seen as a future candidate for help portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next . portuguese prime minister jose socrates said on monday that his country 's economy remained robust and that there was no need for lisbon to ask for a financial rescue package .
the comments came after ireland conceded in agreeing to apply for a financial bailout program from the european union and international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portuguese prime minister socrates welcomed the irish acceptance of help portugal is high on the list of possible future rescue package recipients .
however , socrates said that his country 's financial system was performing well and said that its level of public debt - expected to be 7.3 percent for 2010 - was in line with the eu average .
" there are no links between portugal and ireland , " said socrates .
" i 've heard a lot of talk of the imf .
the country does not have any need for aid . "
the prime minister said he hoped that the irish acceptance of a financial package , which follows that of greece earlier in the year , would reassure nervous lending markets .
" i hope that the fact that ireland has asked for european union funds will permit the situation on the markets to return to normal , because portugal is feeling the effects of contagion very much , " said socrates .
lisbon keen to stay in driving seat like the irish administration , which had been reluctant to seek assistance , portugal 's socialist government is keen to avoid the need for outside help and any resulting loss of sovereignty .
such a course of action could prove unpopular with the electorate , with many older voters remembering traumatic interventions by the imf in the 1970s and 1980s .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish rescue deal follows a bailout for greece earlier this year this led to public spending being slashed at a time when the welfare system was too insufficient to provide proper protection for those affected .
however , some believe that both the imf 's approach and the situation of a more developed portugal in 2010 mean that a bailout is not so unthinkable .
" i think the mood against the imf is changing slightly , " economist pedro lains told deutsche welle .
" you see people who are responsible - officials and those connected to the opposition social democratic party - now they are changing their discourse slightly : they 're saying it is not a drama , that if it comes maybe it 's necessary . "
the center-right social democrat opposition has said it will not vote against the state budget for 2011 .
included in the budget are plans to cut public sector salaries and narrow the deficit to 4.6 percent of gdp .
away from parliament , a general strike was planned for wednesday - the first in two decades to be called by both of portugal 's two main trade union federations .
spain also claims to be different in neighboring spain , another country viewed as likely to need help , prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero said there were differences with the irish situation .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland 's prime minister is facing elections after the budget is approved zapatero 's socialist party 's organizational secretary , marcelino iglesias , quoted the premier as saying that bank stress tests during the summer - to assess the preparedness of banks for another financial crisis - had shown that the spanish financial sector was strong .
dublin 's economic woes stem in large part from the necessity to provide its own multi-billion euro financial aid plan to the troubled anglo-irish bank .
a spokesman for the eu 's economics commissioner also ruled out the risk of ireland 's problems precipitating a domino effect .
" there are no analogies to be made ; the irish case is very specific , " spokesman amadeu altafaj told reporters in brussels .
" the decisions concerning ireland are also meant to stop any possible tension and contagion to other economies , " he added .
the dublin rescue package - which could amount to as much as 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- - was agreed on sunday .
author : alison roberts , richard connor -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- portuguese government seals deal on austerity budget portugal 's minority socialist government has reached a deal with the country 's center-right opposition to introduce an austerity budget .
the agreement is seen as crucial step in averting political and financial chaos .
-lrb- 31.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic portugal could be the next candidate for financial aid -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- feedback are more countries likely to need help to reassure markets ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 23.11.2010 portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portugal is seen as a future candidate for help portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next . portuguese prime minister jose socrates said on monday that his country 's economy remained robust and that there was no need for lisbon to ask for a financial rescue package .
the comments came after ireland conceded in agreeing to apply for a financial bailout program from the european union and international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portuguese prime minister socrates welcomed the irish acceptance of help portugal is high on the list of possible future rescue package recipients .
however , socrates said that his country 's financial system was performing well and said that its level of public debt - expected to be 7.3 percent for 2010 - was in line with the eu average .
" there are no links between portugal and ireland , " said socrates .
" i 've heard a lot of talk of the imf .
the country does not have any need for aid . "
the prime minister said he hoped that the irish acceptance of a financial package , which follows that of greece earlier in the year , would reassure nervous lending markets .
" i hope that the fact that ireland has asked for european union funds will permit the situation on the markets to return to normal , because portugal is feeling the effects of contagion very much , " said socrates .
lisbon keen to stay in driving seat like the irish administration , which had been reluctant to seek assistance , portugal 's socialist government is keen to avoid the need for outside help and any resulting loss of sovereignty .
such a course of action could prove unpopular with the electorate , with many older voters remembering traumatic interventions by the imf in the 1970s and 1980s .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish rescue deal follows a bailout for greece earlier this year this led to public spending being slashed at a time when the welfare system was too insufficient to provide proper protection for those affected .
however , some believe that both the imf 's approach and the situation of a more developed portugal in 2010 mean that a bailout is not so unthinkable .
" i think the mood against the imf is changing slightly , " economist pedro lains told deutsche welle .
" you see people who are responsible - officials and those connected to the opposition social democratic party - now they are changing their discourse slightly : they 're saying it is not a drama , that if it comes maybe it 's necessary . "
the center-right social democrat opposition has said it will not vote against the state budget for 2011 .
included in the budget are plans to cut public sector salaries and narrow the deficit to 4.6 percent of gdp .
away from parliament , a general strike was planned for wednesday - the first in two decades to be called by both of portugal 's two main trade union federations .
spain also claims to be different in neighboring spain , another country viewed as likely to need help , prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero said there were differences with the irish situation .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland 's prime minister is facing elections after the budget is approved zapatero 's socialist party 's organizational secretary , marcelino iglesias , quoted the premier as saying that bank stress tests during the summer - to assess the preparedness of banks for another financial crisis - had shown that the spanish financial sector was strong .
dublin 's economic woes stem in large part from the necessity to provide its own multi-billion euro financial aid plan to the troubled anglo-irish bank .
a spokesman for the eu 's economics commissioner also ruled out the risk of ireland 's problems precipitating a domino effect .
" there are no analogies to be made ; the irish case is very specific , " spokesman amadeu altafaj told reporters in brussels .
" the decisions concerning ireland are also meant to stop any possible tension and contagion to other economies , " he added .
the dublin rescue package - which could amount to as much as 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- - was agreed on sunday .
author : alison roberts , richard connor -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- portuguese government seals deal on austerity budget portugal 's minority socialist government has reached a deal with the country 's center-right opposition to introduce an austerity budget .
the agreement is seen as crucial step in averting political and financial chaos .
-lrb- 31.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic portugal could be the next candidate for financial aid -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- feedback are more countries likely to need help to reassure markets ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think google street view is intrusive ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards voting is underway at the bobs - deutsche welle 's annual blog contest .
cast your ballot social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.11.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 23.11.2010 latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- is where latvians go to send telegrams while many countries around the world have given up the telegraph , it 's still in use in the baltics .
ordinary residents can send them via latvian post , while latvian railway continues to use them to post speed limits . despite the wide prevalence of e-mail and mobile phones , and the demise of the telegraph in most parts of europe , some latvians , including the state railway , still use the telegraph as a primary means of communication .
this month , latvia celebrates the 158th anniversary of the arrival of the electric telegraph in their country .
the telegraph service is operated by the national company latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the first latvian telegraph was sent on nov .
1 , 1852 karīna jankovska , manager of production development at latvia post said that around 200 telegrams continue to be sent within the baltic country every month , or almost seven per day .
in addition , there are approximately 140 telegraphic messages being sent to foreign countries and about 300 international telegrams are being received in latvia on a monthly basis .
the authorities say that the service is still important for those latvians who want to stay in touch with their friends or relatives abroad .
they mostly send telegrams to the former soviet republics like russia , belarus and ukraine .
the telegraph also allows sending and receiving of official documents , like visa declarations .
alternative to e-mail telegrams , which cost just 0.80 latvian lats -lrb- 1.15 euros -rrb- for a domestic message , can be sent from every post office across the country .
one just has to ask the postman for a telegram form and fill in the required information : the name and surname of the sender , the address of the recipient and the message .
however , latvia post admits that the small number of messages that are sent tend to be sent almost exclusively by older latvians who do not use e-mails nor mobile phones , and by those who prefer it for nostalgic reasons .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvian railways continues to use the telegraph for everyday operations " for example , one can easily send a wedding invitation , " jankovska added . " the sender simply has to write the text and pay extra seven cents for each written word .
i think that most of the people use telegrams nowadays because it is interesting . "
forget about morse code the first public electromagnetic telegraph line in the territory of latvia was opened on november 1 , 1852 .
the line connected the capital city of riga with bolderāja , a nearby residential town .
it was the longest civilian telegraph line in the northern europe at the time and the first telegram was sent in german .
but the telegraph technology has changed greatly during the years .
latvia post doesn ’ t employ any vintage telegraph equipment used in the old days in order to provide the telegram service .
all the telegrams are now being sent by computer over the internet using a special e-mail system between the post offices .
the message is printed out with a printer and then delivered to the addressee by the postman the following day .
meanwhile , the telegraphic messages are being used in business as well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the telegraph remains a bit of an anachronism in modern-day riga the latvian railway still uses teletype to communicate between the stations , freight senders and the ports .
for instance , the company utilizes the old-fashioned technology in situations when any speed limitations have to be imposed on the railway network .
" we don ’ t have yet -lsb- this -rsb- so-called e-signature , " said antra birzule , a latvian railway spokesperson .
by contrast , latvia 's northern neighbor , estonia , has had digital signatures and publicly-provided encrypted e-mail for almost a decade .
" those documents sent by teletype are documented as an official document .
if it ’ s just an e-mail it doesn ’ t work yet in latvia at such a high level because in the railway , the key issue is safety .
so , we still rely on the teletype . "
special place in latvian history many latvians are either unaware of , or have forgotten the telegraph 's key role in latvia ’ s fight for restoration of its independence back in january 1991 .
the soviet political and military forces tried to overthrow the latvian authorities by occupying important governmental institutions .
" when the telephone lines were shut down by the kgb , the so called telex central was still operating , " explained ļevs datelis , a latvian telecommunications engineer and expert on latvian telegraph history . " the soviet secret police didn ’ t pay much attention to it and the latvian politicians used it for communication .
it also enabled them to communicate with foreign countries . "
however , despite this history , karīna jankovska of latvia post added that even though the telegram service does n't lose money , the company plans on shutting down the telegram service by 2015 .
author : ģederts ģelzis , riga editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de row breaks out over latvia 's main anti-corruption body plans to shift the focus of the fight against corruption in latvia from the capital riga to the regions will just weaken the anti-corruption drive , critics say .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- economic recovery at stake in latvian elections latvia is just weeks away from its next general election .
one of the key issues is the country 's fledgling economic recovery .
but the party that is leading in the opinion polls wants to forge closer ties with russia .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- riga on a shoestring want to explore europe but you 're on a tight budget ?
pulse takes you to some of europe 's most interesting cities and proves you do n't have to spend a fortune .
in this edition , dw 's gederts gelzis shows you around riga .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years feedback have you ever sent a telegram ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread -pipe- protecting biodiversity in suriname -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home europe turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power hydropower biodiversity -pipe- 23.11.2010 threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : leatherback turtles have existed for millions of years the earth is home to some 20 million species , and many more that scientists believe have never been identified .
they say species extinctions are on the rise , with repercussions for mankind . the leatherback turtle lives on the coast of suriname .
weighing up to 700 kilos -lrb- 1,540 pounds -rrb- and as long as 2.5 meters -lrb- 8 feet -rrb- , it 's the world 's largest sea turtle .
but sheer size is n't enough to prevent it from dying out .
its reproductive patterns are highly sensitive to rising temperatures : sands in many areas are today so scorching that eggs can not survive , and moreover , sand temperatures determine the sex ratio of turtle eggs .
if the sand in which they lay their eggs gets too hot , more female turtles are produced – which destroys the natural gender balance and endangers breeding success over the long term .
a further problem is loss of nesting and feeding habitats due to rising sea-levels .
taken together , all this means their numbers are declining dramatically and they have been added to the international union for conservation of nature -lrb- iucn -rrb- " red list " of threatened species .
according to experts , if no action is taken to protect leatherbacks , these reptiles , which have existed for over 65 million years , will disappear in our lifetime .
climate change and biodiversity bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : clownfish are losing their sense of smell the united nations declared 2010 to be the international year of biodiversity , with research showing that , via global warming , man is responsible for the greatest extinction of wildlife since the demise of the dinosaurs .
one-fifth of the world 's vertebrates face extinction , according to the latest figures released by the iucn .
in fact , the role played by global warming is a matter of keen debate .
many scientists believe that other factors contribute , such as poaching , and the fact that the consequences of climate change are intensified by pollution .
climate change is also having severe impacts on migratory species .
that is also likely to be increasingly disruptive , experts say .
" these days , you come across species in places where they 've never been before , " said wendy foden , of the species program run by the iucn in london .
" some species are migrating to colder regions , and in south america , that means further south and higher altitudes . "
marine life is equally affected but the animals have fewer migratory options .
increased co2 levels in the atmosphere are changing ocean ph levels , a process which alters many species ' habitat .
what it means for mankind helen foden cites the example of the clownfish .
“ when the water is more acidic than usual , clownfish start to lose their sense of smell , " she said .
like many reef and coastal fish , clownfish are swept off their home reefs into the open ocean as babies , and use their acute senses of smell to find their way back .
the tiny larvae of many coastal fish rely on scent cues in the water to help locate adult habitat .
iucn experts now hope to use the popularity of the clownfish to raise awareness of how climate change is impacting ecosystems .
" thanks to the movie ‘ finding nemo , ' everyone is familiar with clownfish , " said foden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the tiny noblella pygmaea mini frog was only discovered in 2009 species extinction has an immediate effect on mankind .
according to a recent survey carried out in germany , two-thirds of those questioned said that they would be personally affected by biodiversity loss , but mainly in terms of their leisure-time activities .
in fact , the repercussions will be significantly further-reaching .
the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity -lrb- teeb -rrb- study is a major international initiative set up to draw attention to the global economic benefits of biodiversity and to highlight the growing costs of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation . it puts the worldwide economic value of the pollination service provided by insect pollinators , for example , at some € 153 billion -lrb- $ 210 billion -rrb- – proof that species ' extinction is about far more than leisure activities .
however , the teeb study has been unable to give a precise figure to the cost of loss of biodiversity , simply because many species have never been identified . unknown species bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south america is believed to be home to the world 's greatest biodiversity some 1.9 million species are officially catalogued , but this is believed to be just a small percentage of the species that actually exist .
researchers estimate that about 100 species die out every year , and since their function in the ecosystem is not necessarily known , scientists are not in a position to identify the consequences of their extinction .
gudrun mernitz is co-founder of the resource center for marine organisms .
she and her team have isolated several hundred substances out of marine micro-organisms , which are now being examined as potential components in pharmaceuticals . " several might be active against types of cancer , " said mernitz .
in the past 10 years , some 6 percent of medicines developed were derived from natural substances , says rolf hoemke from the association of research-based pharmaceuticals companies .
" it might be anything , even the intestines of a bug , " he said .
the pharmaceutical potential of biodiversity should not underestimated .
researchers from conservation international take regular field trips to document biodiversity and to locate where the establishment of conservation areas would be most constructive .
the idea is that by protecting animal and plant species from pollution and poaching , they may adjust over time to climate change .
author : marion huetter -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de extinction threatens over one fifth of world 's plants the world 's plants are facing an extinction rate on a par with mammals .
one in five plant species is at threat of dying out , says a new study released ahead of the un 's biodiversity summit in japan in october .
-lrb- 29.09.2010 -rrb- russia convenes leaders ' summit to save tigers from extinction the fate of the world 's 3,500 wild tigers is the theme at a conference in russia this week .
leaders from the 13 nations with wild tigers are meeting amid claims that the animals could be extinct within a dozen years .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think should be done to preserve biodiversity ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 main page english deutsch español 中文 عربي dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv .
global 3000 24.01.2011 edition as video on demand radio listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 20.01.11 -rrb- the living planet page get connected global ideas : stay up to date facebook twitter videos on youtube podcast via rss-feed podcast via itunes our planet dw 's in depth reporting on environement and development issues .
click here © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 23.11.2010 latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- is where latvians go to send telegrams while many countries around the world have given up the telegraph , it 's still in use in the baltics .
ordinary residents can send them via latvian post , while latvian railway continues to use them to post speed limits . despite the wide prevalence of e-mail and mobile phones , and the demise of the telegraph in most parts of europe , some latvians , including the state railway , still use the telegraph as a primary means of communication .
this month , latvia celebrates the 158th anniversary of the arrival of the electric telegraph in their country .
the telegraph service is operated by the national company latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the first latvian telegraph was sent on nov .
1 , 1852 karīna jankovska , manager of production development at latvia post said that around 200 telegrams continue to be sent within the baltic country every month , or almost seven per day .
in addition , there are approximately 140 telegraphic messages being sent to foreign countries and about 300 international telegrams are being received in latvia on a monthly basis .
the authorities say that the service is still important for those latvians who want to stay in touch with their friends or relatives abroad .
they mostly send telegrams to the former soviet republics like russia , belarus and ukraine .
the telegraph also allows sending and receiving of official documents , like visa declarations .
alternative to e-mail telegrams , which cost just 0.80 latvian lats -lrb- 1.15 euros -rrb- for a domestic message , can be sent from every post office across the country .
one just has to ask the postman for a telegram form and fill in the required information : the name and surname of the sender , the address of the recipient and the message .
however , latvia post admits that the small number of messages that are sent tend to be sent almost exclusively by older latvians who do not use e-mails nor mobile phones , and by those who prefer it for nostalgic reasons .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvian railways continues to use the telegraph for everyday operations " for example , one can easily send a wedding invitation , " jankovska added . " the sender simply has to write the text and pay extra seven cents for each written word .
i think that most of the people use telegrams nowadays because it is interesting . "
forget about morse code the first public electromagnetic telegraph line in the territory of latvia was opened on november 1 , 1852 .
the line connected the capital city of riga with bolderāja , a nearby residential town .
it was the longest civilian telegraph line in the northern europe at the time and the first telegram was sent in german .
but the telegraph technology has changed greatly during the years .
latvia post doesn ’ t employ any vintage telegraph equipment used in the old days in order to provide the telegram service .
all the telegrams are now being sent by computer over the internet using a special e-mail system between the post offices .
the message is printed out with a printer and then delivered to the addressee by the postman the following day .
meanwhile , the telegraphic messages are being used in business as well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the telegraph remains a bit of an anachronism in modern-day riga the latvian railway still uses teletype to communicate between the stations , freight senders and the ports .
for instance , the company utilizes the old-fashioned technology in situations when any speed limitations have to be imposed on the railway network .
" we don ’ t have yet -lsb- this -rsb- so-called e-signature , " said antra birzule , a latvian railway spokesperson .
by contrast , latvia 's northern neighbor , estonia , has had digital signatures and publicly-provided encrypted e-mail for almost a decade .
" those documents sent by teletype are documented as an official document .
if it ’ s just an e-mail it doesn ’ t work yet in latvia at such a high level because in the railway , the key issue is safety .
so , we still rely on the teletype . "
special place in latvian history many latvians are either unaware of , or have forgotten the telegraph 's key role in latvia ’ s fight for restoration of its independence back in january 1991 .
the soviet political and military forces tried to overthrow the latvian authorities by occupying important governmental institutions .
" when the telephone lines were shut down by the kgb , the so called telex central was still operating , " explained ļevs datelis , a latvian telecommunications engineer and expert on latvian telegraph history . " the soviet secret police didn ’ t pay much attention to it and the latvian politicians used it for communication .
it also enabled them to communicate with foreign countries . "
however , despite this history , karīna jankovska of latvia post added that even though the telegram service does n't lose money , the company plans on shutting down the telegram service by 2015 .
author : ģederts ģelzis , riga editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de row breaks out over latvia 's main anti-corruption body plans to shift the focus of the fight against corruption in latvia from the capital riga to the regions will just weaken the anti-corruption drive , critics say .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- economic recovery at stake in latvian elections latvia is just weeks away from its next general election .
one of the key issues is the country 's fledgling economic recovery .
but the party that is leading in the opinion polls wants to forge closer ties with russia .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- riga on a shoestring want to explore europe but you 're on a tight budget ?
pulse takes you to some of europe 's most interesting cities and proves you do n't have to spend a fortune .
in this edition , dw 's gederts gelzis shows you around riga .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years feedback have you ever sent a telegram ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards voting is underway at the bobs - deutsche welle 's annual blog contest .
cast your ballot social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 23.11.2010 latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- is where latvians go to send telegrams while many countries around the world have given up the telegraph , it 's still in use in the baltics .
ordinary residents can send them via latvian post , while latvian railway continues to use them to post speed limits . despite the wide prevalence of e-mail and mobile phones , and the demise of the telegraph in most parts of europe , some latvians , including the state railway , still use the telegraph as a primary means of communication .
this month , latvia celebrates the 158th anniversary of the arrival of the electric telegraph in their country .
the telegraph service is operated by the national company latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the first latvian telegraph was sent on nov .
1 , 1852 karīna jankovska , manager of production development at latvia post said that around 200 telegrams continue to be sent within the baltic country every month , or almost seven per day .
in addition , there are approximately 140 telegraphic messages being sent to foreign countries and about 300 international telegrams are being received in latvia on a monthly basis .
the authorities say that the service is still important for those latvians who want to stay in touch with their friends or relatives abroad .
they mostly send telegrams to the former soviet republics like russia , belarus and ukraine .
the telegraph also allows sending and receiving of official documents , like visa declarations .
alternative to e-mail telegrams , which cost just 0.80 latvian lats -lrb- 1.15 euros -rrb- for a domestic message , can be sent from every post office across the country .
one just has to ask the postman for a telegram form and fill in the required information : the name and surname of the sender , the address of the recipient and the message .
however , latvia post admits that the small number of messages that are sent tend to be sent almost exclusively by older latvians who do not use e-mails nor mobile phones , and by those who prefer it for nostalgic reasons .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvian railways continues to use the telegraph for everyday operations " for example , one can easily send a wedding invitation , " jankovska added . " the sender simply has to write the text and pay extra seven cents for each written word .
i think that most of the people use telegrams nowadays because it is interesting . "
forget about morse code the first public electromagnetic telegraph line in the territory of latvia was opened on november 1 , 1852 .
the line connected the capital city of riga with bolderāja , a nearby residential town .
it was the longest civilian telegraph line in the northern europe at the time and the first telegram was sent in german .
but the telegraph technology has changed greatly during the years .
latvia post doesn ’ t employ any vintage telegraph equipment used in the old days in order to provide the telegram service .
all the telegrams are now being sent by computer over the internet using a special e-mail system between the post offices .
the message is printed out with a printer and then delivered to the addressee by the postman the following day .
meanwhile , the telegraphic messages are being used in business as well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the telegraph remains a bit of an anachronism in modern-day riga the latvian railway still uses teletype to communicate between the stations , freight senders and the ports .
for instance , the company utilizes the old-fashioned technology in situations when any speed limitations have to be imposed on the railway network .
" we don ’ t have yet -lsb- this -rsb- so-called e-signature , " said antra birzule , a latvian railway spokesperson .
by contrast , latvia 's northern neighbor , estonia , has had digital signatures and publicly-provided encrypted e-mail for almost a decade .
" those documents sent by teletype are documented as an official document .
if it ’ s just an e-mail it doesn ’ t work yet in latvia at such a high level because in the railway , the key issue is safety .
so , we still rely on the teletype . "
special place in latvian history many latvians are either unaware of , or have forgotten the telegraph 's key role in latvia ’ s fight for restoration of its independence back in january 1991 .
the soviet political and military forces tried to overthrow the latvian authorities by occupying important governmental institutions .
" when the telephone lines were shut down by the kgb , the so called telex central was still operating , " explained ļevs datelis , a latvian telecommunications engineer and expert on latvian telegraph history . " the soviet secret police didn ’ t pay much attention to it and the latvian politicians used it for communication .
it also enabled them to communicate with foreign countries . "
however , despite this history , karīna jankovska of latvia post added that even though the telegram service does n't lose money , the company plans on shutting down the telegram service by 2015 .
author : ģederts ģelzis , riga editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de row breaks out over latvia 's main anti-corruption body plans to shift the focus of the fight against corruption in latvia from the capital riga to the regions will just weaken the anti-corruption drive , critics say .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- economic recovery at stake in latvian elections latvia is just weeks away from its next general election .
one of the key issues is the country 's fledgling economic recovery .
but the party that is leading in the opinion polls wants to forge closer ties with russia .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- riga on a shoestring want to explore europe but you 're on a tight budget ?
pulse takes you to some of europe 's most interesting cities and proves you do n't have to spend a fortune .
in this edition , dw 's gederts gelzis shows you around riga .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years feedback have you ever sent a telegram ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread -pipe- protecting biodiversity in suriname -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home europe turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia bio-coal in india biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power hydropower biodiversity -pipe- 23.11.2010 threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : leatherback turtles have existed for millions of years the earth is home to some 20 million species , and many more that scientists believe have never been identified .
they say species extinctions are on the rise , with repercussions for mankind . the leatherback turtle lives on the coast of suriname .
weighing up to 700 kilos -lrb- 1,540 pounds -rrb- and as long as 2.5 meters -lrb- 8 feet -rrb- , it 's the world 's largest sea turtle .
but sheer size is n't enough to prevent it from dying out .
its reproductive patterns are highly sensitive to rising temperatures : sands in many areas are today so scorching that eggs can not survive , and moreover , sand temperatures determine the sex ratio of turtle eggs .
if the sand in which they lay their eggs gets too hot , more female turtles are produced – which destroys the natural gender balance and endangers breeding success over the long term .
a further problem is loss of nesting and feeding habitats due to rising sea-levels .
taken together , all this means their numbers are declining dramatically and they have been added to the international union for conservation of nature -lrb- iucn -rrb- " red list " of threatened species .
according to experts , if no action is taken to protect leatherbacks , these reptiles , which have existed for over 65 million years , will disappear in our lifetime .
climate change and biodiversity bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : clownfish are losing their sense of smell the united nations declared 2010 to be the international year of biodiversity , with research showing that , via global warming , man is responsible for the greatest extinction of wildlife since the demise of the dinosaurs .
one-fifth of the world 's vertebrates face extinction , according to the latest figures released by the iucn .
in fact , the role played by global warming is a matter of keen debate .
many scientists believe that other factors contribute , such as poaching , and the fact that the consequences of climate change are intensified by pollution .
climate change is also having severe impacts on migratory species .
that is also likely to be increasingly disruptive , experts say .
" these days , you come across species in places where they 've never been before , " said wendy foden , of the species program run by the iucn in london .
" some species are migrating to colder regions , and in south america , that means further south and higher altitudes . "
marine life is equally affected but the animals have fewer migratory options .
increased co2 levels in the atmosphere are changing ocean ph levels , a process which alters many species ' habitat .
what it means for mankind helen foden cites the example of the clownfish .
“ when the water is more acidic than usual , clownfish start to lose their sense of smell , " she said .
like many reef and coastal fish , clownfish are swept off their home reefs into the open ocean as babies , and use their acute senses of smell to find their way back .
the tiny larvae of many coastal fish rely on scent cues in the water to help locate adult habitat .
iucn experts now hope to use the popularity of the clownfish to raise awareness of how climate change is impacting ecosystems .
" thanks to the movie ‘ finding nemo , ' everyone is familiar with clownfish , " said foden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the tiny noblella pygmaea mini frog was only discovered in 2009 species extinction has an immediate effect on mankind .
according to a recent survey carried out in germany , two-thirds of those questioned said that they would be personally affected by biodiversity loss , but mainly in terms of their leisure-time activities .
in fact , the repercussions will be significantly further-reaching .
the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity -lrb- teeb -rrb- study is a major international initiative set up to draw attention to the global economic benefits of biodiversity and to highlight the growing costs of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation . it puts the worldwide economic value of the pollination service provided by insect pollinators , for example , at some € 153 billion -lrb- $ 210 billion -rrb- – proof that species ' extinction is about far more than leisure activities .
however , the teeb study has been unable to give a precise figure to the cost of loss of biodiversity , simply because many species have never been identified . unknown species bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south america is believed to be home to the world 's greatest biodiversity some 1.9 million species are officially catalogued , but this is believed to be just a small percentage of the species that actually exist .
researchers estimate that about 100 species die out every year , and since their function in the ecosystem is not necessarily known , scientists are not in a position to identify the consequences of their extinction .
gudrun mernitz is co-founder of the resource center for marine organisms .
she and her team have isolated several hundred substances out of marine micro-organisms , which are now being examined as potential components in pharmaceuticals . " several might be active against types of cancer , " said mernitz .
in the past 10 years , some 6 percent of medicines developed were derived from natural substances , says rolf hoemke from the association of research-based pharmaceuticals companies .
" it might be anything , even the intestines of a bug , " he said .
the pharmaceutical potential of biodiversity should not underestimated .
researchers from conservation international take regular field trips to document biodiversity and to locate where the establishment of conservation areas would be most constructive .
the idea is that by protecting animal and plant species from pollution and poaching , they may adjust over time to climate change .
author : marion huetter -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de extinction threatens over one fifth of world 's plants the world 's plants are facing an extinction rate on a par with mammals .
one in five plant species is at threat of dying out , says a new study released ahead of the un 's biodiversity summit in japan in october .
-lrb- 29.09.2010 -rrb- russia convenes leaders ' summit to save tigers from extinction the fate of the world 's 3,500 wild tigers is the theme at a conference in russia this week .
leaders from the 13 nations with wild tigers are meeting amid claims that the animals could be extinct within a dozen years .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think should be done to preserve biodiversity ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 main page english deutsch español 中文 عربي dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv .
global 3000 20.12.2010 edition as video on demand radio listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 23.12.10 -rrb- get connected global ideas : stay up to date facebook twitter videos on youtube podcast via rss-feed podcast via itunes our planet dw 's in depth reporting on environement and development issues .
click here © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 23.11.2010 portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portugal is seen as a future candidate for help portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next . portuguese prime minister jose socrates said on monday that his country 's economy remained robust and that there was no need for lisbon to ask for a financial rescue package .
the comments came after ireland conceded in agreeing to apply for a financial bailout program from the european union and international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portuguese prime minister socrates welcomed the irish acceptance of help portugal is high on the list of possible future rescue package recipients .
however , socrates said that his country 's financial system was performing well and said that its level of public debt - expected to be 7.3 percent for 2010 - was in line with the eu average .
" there are no links between portugal and ireland , " said socrates .
" i 've heard a lot of talk of the imf .
the country does not have any need for aid . "
the prime minister said he hoped that the irish acceptance of a financial package , which follows that of greece earlier in the year , would reassure nervous lending markets .
" i hope that the fact that ireland has asked for european union funds will permit the situation on the markets to return to normal , because portugal is feeling the effects of contagion very much , " said socrates .
lisbon keen to stay in driving seat like the irish administration , which had been reluctant to seek assistance , portugal 's socialist government is keen to avoid the need for outside help and any resulting loss of sovereignty .
such a course of action could prove unpopular with the electorate , with many older voters remembering traumatic interventions by the imf in the 1970s and 1980s .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish rescue deal follows a bailout for greece earlier this year this led to public spending being slashed at a time when the welfare system was too insufficient to provide proper protection for those affected .
however , some believe that both the imf 's approach and the situation of a more developed portugal in 2010 mean that a bailout is not so unthinkable .
" i think the mood against the imf is changing slightly , " economist pedro lains told deutsche welle .
" you see people who are responsible - officials and those connected to the opposition social democratic party - now they are changing their discourse slightly : they 're saying it is not a drama , that if it comes maybe it 's necessary . "
the center-right social democrat opposition has said it will not vote against the state budget for 2011 .
included in the budget are plans to cut public sector salaries and narrow the deficit to 4.6 percent of gdp .
away from parliament , a general strike was planned for wednesday - the first in two decades to be called by both of portugal 's two main trade union federations .
spain also claims to be different in neighboring spain , another country viewed as likely to need help , prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero said there were differences with the irish situation .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland 's prime minister is facing elections after the budget is approved zapatero 's socialist party 's organizational secretary , marcelino iglesias , quoted the premier as saying that bank stress tests during the summer - to assess the preparedness of banks for another financial crisis - had shown that the spanish financial sector was strong .
dublin 's economic woes stem in large part from the necessity to provide its own multi-billion euro financial aid plan to the troubled anglo-irish bank .
a spokesman for the eu 's economics commissioner also ruled out the risk of ireland 's problems precipitating a domino effect .
" there are no analogies to be made ; the irish case is very specific , " spokesman amadeu altafaj told reporters in brussels .
" the decisions concerning ireland are also meant to stop any possible tension and contagion to other economies , " he added .
the dublin rescue package - which could amount to as much as 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- - was agreed on sunday .
author : alison roberts , richard connor -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- portuguese government seals deal on austerity budget portugal 's minority socialist government has reached a deal with the country 's center-right opposition to introduce an austerity budget .
the agreement is seen as crucial step in averting political and financial chaos .
-lrb- 31.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic portugal could be the next candidate for financial aid -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- feedback are more countries likely to need help to reassure markets ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
north korea attacks south korean island -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de asia -pipe- 23.11.2010 north korea attacks south korean island großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the shelling set buildings on fire and lasted about an hour north korea has shelled the south korean border island of yeonpyeong , killing two marines and injuring several others , prompting international condemnation .
the north says the south fired on it first . south korean officials and media reports said on tuesday that north korean air force jets fired dozens of shells at the border island , setting buildings ablaze and injuring at least a dozen other people . south korean troops based on the island fired back , and the military was put on top alert , news agencies in the south reported . north korea , meanwhile , said the south had fired first ; seoul acknowledged it was conducting military operations close to the disputed maritime border between the two territories , but said it had been firing west , not north . a senior south korean defense ministry official , lee hong-ki , called the shelling " an intentional attack " and a " clear violation of the armistice " between the two countries . south korean president lee myung-bak said in response that his government was working to prevent the exchange of fire between the north and south .
however , he added that his country would retaliate should the north attack again . a defense ministry spokesman said that a class-a military alert for battle situations had been imposed immediately . major powers condemn the attack un secretary-general ban ki-moon described the attack as " one of the gravest incidents since the end of the korean war " and called for restraint by both sides . in the united states , the white house issued a statement " strongly condemning " the artillery attack and called on north korea " to halt its belligerent action . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german minister said the incident endangered peace german foreign minister guido westerwelle said he was " very worried about this newest development " and appealed for " moderation among the participants . " " this renewed provocation endangers peace in the region , " westerwelle said . japan , china and russia also voiced deep concern over the incident . japanese prime minister naoto kan said he had ordered his cabinet ministers to prepare for any eventuality . russia warned against an escalation of tensions and called the attack " unacceptable . "
in moscow , foreign minister sergei lavrov urged both sides to show restraint to prevent a wider conflict . " there is a colossal danger , which must be avoided , " lavrov warned , adding that " those who started this bear a huge responsibility . " bildunterschrift : yeonpyeong is in a sensitive border area of the yellow sea south korea 's ytn television said air force jets were scrambled , after what appeared to be one of the most serious border incidents since the 1950-53 war .
the two koreas are still technically at war , as that conflict ended only in a truce . local islanders were evacuated to safe areas , and the military and police were checking the number of casualties , ytn reported .
residents were also said to be fleeing the island by fishing boat . unconfirmed eyewitness reports said that fires caused by the shelling were now burning out of control and spreading . south korea 's unification ministry reportedly told ytn that it was considering evacuating its citizens in north korea , who work at the kaesong industrial park and mount kumgang resort . yeonpyeong island lies about three kilometers -lrb- 1.8 miles -rrb- south of the sea border and 120 kilometers west of seoul . the yellow sea border was the scene of deadly naval clashes in 1999 and 2002 , and the north 's alleged involvement in the sinking of a south korean ship there last november damaged already tense ties between the two neighbors . author : gabriel borrud , gregg benzow -lrb- ap , dpa , afp , reuters -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de north korea reportedly fires artillery barrage south korean military officials have said that the north fired 100 shells into waters near the disputed inter-korean sea border .
the incident comes after a south korea accused the north of detaining a fishing boat .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- south korean-us simulation attack drills anger pyongyang north korea has once again criticized joint military exercises conducted by the us and south korea .
the drills come as tension on the korean peninsula is high and speculation about the leadership in pyongyang is rife .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- us announces fresh sanctions against n. korea the us has announced new sanctions against north korea .
the measures are to target pyongyang 's weapons ' proliferation and the import of luxury goods .
-lrb- 21.07.2010 -rrb- north korea proliferation report raises international , regional stakes a leaked un document revealed to reporters in new york recently accuses north korea of defying existing sanctions on arms control and nuclear proliferation by exporting technology to iran , syria and burma .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic north korea shells south korea -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- 02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- 02 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think google street view is intrusive ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
02 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 23.11.2010 bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : borriello fell , but retained his composure to start the fight back bayern munich suffered a shock defeat against champions league rivals roma , conceding two late goals .
the italians came out on top despite a two-goal lead for the bavarians through in-form mario gomez . bayern munich squandered a two-goal lead to hand victory to champions league opponents roma in tuesday 's soccer action .
louis van gaal 's men , who have already qualified for the knockout stages of the competition , went ahead through two goals from in-form striker mario gomez .
although roma started well , it was gomez who broke the deadlock on 34 minutes , when franck ribery skillfully turned the ball to gomez , who beat defender marco cassetti to put the ball into the corner of goal .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gomez has scored 14 goals in his last 10 games five minutes later , a misplaced pass from roma 's jeremy menez was picked up by thomas mueller .
the german midfielder 's pass allowed gomez to double his tally , firing in across goalkeeper julio sergio .
the goal means gomez has now scored 14 goals in his last 10 games .
with bayern cruising , it was up to roma to muster a strong comeback if they were to boost their chances of qualification .
the italian revival began after the restart , when roma coach claudio ranieri moved menez from behind the attack to wide right .
menez easily beat bayern 's anatoliy tymoshchuk and martin demichelis to cross the ball for forward marco borriello .
although boriello fell as tried to control the pass , he was still able to flick the ball into goal past keeper thomas kraft .
late goals seal win the equalizer came nine minutes from time , as john arne riise fired the ball across the box for daniele de rossi to put away .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern have a superior record in their head-to-head encounters with roma substitute francesco totti made it 3-2 from the penalty spot on 84 minutes , after borriello was brought down by goalkeeper thomas kraft .
coach louis van gaal criticized his side for throwing away a lead .
" the problem was , we lost too many balls and gave too many chances to roma , " said van gaal .
" we ’ ve thrown away a game again . " van gaal 's criticism of his players comes as the dutch coach is increasingly under fire for his management style . on tuesday , midfielder ribery said he was disappointed to hear van gaal accuse him of a lacklustre performance in a friendly against third division side unterhaching .
van gaal has also been accused of arrogance by club boss uli hoeness . bayern still top group e with 12 points and can not be supplanted by second-place roma , who have an inferior head-to head record with the bavarians .
in wednesday 's champions league football , schalke play host to lyon and bremen are away to london side tottenham hotspur .
author : richard connor -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : catherine bolsover send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich coast to win over nuremberg bayern munich wrapped up the 12th bundesliga match day with an easy win over nuremberg .
freiburg scored an extra time goal to squeak out a victory against hoffenheim .
-lrb- 14.11.2010 -rrb- by luck or judgment , van gaal has bayern back on course forced for months to withstand talk of " crisis , " bundesliga giant bayern munich are beginning to stir .
with champions league progress now secure , the bavarians may get down to business - and rip through the league .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- bayern ease through to champions league knockout phase germany international mario gomez was given a rare start as bayern munich outplayed romanian side cfr cluj 4-0 on wednesday .
gomez contributed with a hat trick , helping his team to the champions league knockout stages .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- 02 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaftsbilanz we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
women 's world cup live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's next match against france : july 5 , 18:30 utc dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report corruption soccer scandal turkish police arrest 60 people in turkey 's biggest ever soccer match-fixing scandal .
anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 23.11.2010 parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : social democrats put the emphasis on unity across the eu , the greens say ireland is a symbol of failed market liberalism and the liberals insist the goal of eurozone countries should be converging economic policies . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic listen to the report from christoph hasselbach in brussels .
02 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 23.11.2010 dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : buying kagawa was one of the smartest and cheapest things dortmund have done " money scores goals " - so the old football cliche .
but while some pricey transfers have yet to yield dividends , players acquired for relatively little or nothing at all have been setting german soccer on fire . 350,000 euros is a fair amount of a money - enough , for instance , to purchase a comfortable dwelling in a decent neighborhood in most european cities .
but it 's not sufficient to buy the top-scoring midfielder in a major european football league .
unless , of course , that player is shinji kagawa .
dortmund 's acquisition of the japanese whirlwind for the soccer equivalent of loose change has been one of the stories of the year .
but it 's actually fairly typical both of the dortmund squad overall and a topsy-turvy season in which bargains have outperformed big-name signings .
germany 's sportbild newspaper recently did some math and discovered that the dortmund side currently steamrolling the league cost the club less than one-sixth of what it paid for its 2002 squad , the last time dortmund won the bundesliga .
bildunterschrift : barrios ' value has shot through the roof from back to front , dortmund have been getting excellent returns on modest investments .
even the club 's top striker , lukas barrios , only cost 4.5 million euros -lrb- $ 6.2 million -rrb- in transfer fees , a pittance compared with the sums bayern munich paid for mario gomez -lrb- ca .
35 million euros -rrb- or schalke for klaas-jan huntelaar -lrb- 14 million -rrb- .
kagawa and barrios illustrate the impact that good scouting can have .
discovering new talent may be harder than opening up the purse strings to purchase established players ' services , but it 's a better way to improve a squad .
persistence pays off bildunterschrift : cisse was worth the wait for freiburg if barrios is a bargain , freiburg 's papiss demba cisse is nothing short of sensation .
in 29 games for the small southern german club , the senegalese striker has scored 16 goals .
the 1.5 million euros freiburg paid to acquire him from french club metz in the winter break last year may be the highest transfer sum in club history , but he 's been worth every cent .
by comparison , lukas podolski , who cost cologne 10 million , only has 6 goals in 40 matches .
freiburg were originally rebuffed by metz when they made their first bid for cisse at the start of last season .
but they hung tough in pursuit of the man they wanted , and their patience has been rewarded .
bildunterschrift : ya konan has given hanover reason to smile another steal has been hanover 's didier ya konan who came in at the beginning of last season from rosenborg trondheim for 500,000 euros .
his 12 goals in 31 matches does n't immediately take one 's breath away but consider how impotent hanover 's attack otherwise is .
since his arrival , hanover has n't earned a single point from the ten games in which ya konan has n't been able to play .
the ivorian striker was a key reason why hanover avoided relegation last season and are fourth in the table after thirteen rounds in this one .
the half-a-million hanover shelled out now seems like next to nothing .
but some other valuable contributors have in fact come even cheaper .
fabulous freebies bildunterschrift : in piszczek , dortmund got a good defender for nothing even better than unearthing bargains is finding players whose contracts are expiring and thus can be had free of transfer charges .
one increasingly important member of dortmund 's squad is right back lukasz piszczek , who forced the own goal in the 2-1 win over freiburg on saturday that kept the men in yellow 's winning streak alive .
the polish national got relegated with hertha berlin last season , but dortmund recognized his potential .
and after an initial period of adjustment , he 's established himself in a hard-to-fill position for a title-worthy squad .
another way , of course , to acquire quality is to borrow it .
mainz , of course , have done fantastically well with rising german star lewis holtby this year .
he 's actually under contract to schalke , who must be ruing the decision to send him off for a year of development he obviously does n't need .
the undisputed masters of the rent-a-talent game , though , are nuremberg .
the club , as they 're known , borrowed a quartet of players from bayern and hamburg last year and successfully avoided relegation .
bildunterschrift : schieber , right , has helped nuremberg keep an even keel this year , julian schieber from stuttgart and mehmet ekici from bayern have been key members of a squad that has kept a comfortable distance between themselves and the drop zone .
arguably , borrowing talent does little for a club 's medium-term development .
on the other hand , nuremberg are above schalke and stuttgart in the table , and mainz are better than everyone but dortmund .
so it 's hard to take them to task for temporarily acquiring some good players for free .
author : jefferson chase editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dortmund stay top , raul awakens to lead schalke bundesliga leaders borussia dortmund clinched a 2-1 win over freiburg to keep ahead at the top of the league standings .
the much-criticzed raul , meanwhile , hit a hat trick as schalke demolished bremen 4-0 .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- germany coach loew taps young dortmund talent for sweden friendly the mercurial rise of youthful dortmund in the bundesliga has not gone unnoticed .
for wednesday 's match , germany 's coach has called up a quartet of dortmunders .
some may being staying in the national squad .
-lrb- 16.11.2010 -rrb- dortmund widen first-place bundesliga lead with victory against hamburg after goals from shinji kagawa and lucas barrios , dortmund managed to shut out opponents hamburg in friday 's lone bundesliga football match , keeping the team at the top of the table .
-lrb- 12.11.2010 -rrb- feedback does money score goals ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
02 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box feedback from around the world listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 23.11.2010 dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : buying kagawa was one of the smartest and cheapest things dortmund have done " money scores goals " - so the old football cliche .
but while some pricey transfers have yet to yield dividends , players acquired for relatively little or nothing at all have been setting german soccer on fire . 350,000 euros is a fair amount of a money - enough , for instance , to purchase a comfortable dwelling in a decent neighborhood in most european cities .
but it 's not sufficient to buy the top-scoring midfielder in a major european football league .
unless , of course , that player is shinji kagawa .
dortmund 's acquisition of the japanese whirlwind for the soccer equivalent of loose change has been one of the stories of the year .
but it 's actually fairly typical both of the dortmund squad overall and a topsy-turvy season in which bargains have outperformed big-name signings .
germany 's sportbild newspaper recently did some math and discovered that the dortmund side currently steamrolling the league cost the club less than one-sixth of what it paid for its 2002 squad , the last time dortmund won the bundesliga .
bildunterschrift : barrios ' value has shot through the roof from back to front , dortmund have been getting excellent returns on modest investments .
even the club 's top striker , lukas barrios , only cost 4.5 million euros -lrb- $ 6.2 million -rrb- in transfer fees , a pittance compared with the sums bayern munich paid for mario gomez -lrb- ca .
35 million euros -rrb- or schalke for klaas-jan huntelaar -lrb- 14 million -rrb- .
kagawa and barrios illustrate the impact that good scouting can have .
discovering new talent may be harder than opening up the purse strings to purchase established players ' services , but it 's a better way to improve a squad .
persistence pays off bildunterschrift : cisse was worth the wait for freiburg if barrios is a bargain , freiburg 's papiss demba cisse is nothing short of sensation .
in 29 games for the small southern german club , the senegalese striker has scored 16 goals .
the 1.5 million euros freiburg paid to acquire him from french club metz in the winter break last year may be the highest transfer sum in club history , but he 's been worth every cent .
by comparison , lukas podolski , who cost cologne 10 million , only has 6 goals in 40 matches .
freiburg were originally rebuffed by metz when they made their first bid for cisse at the start of last season .
but they hung tough in pursuit of the man they wanted , and their patience has been rewarded .
bildunterschrift : ya konan has given hanover reason to smile another steal has been hanover 's didier ya konan who came in at the beginning of last season from rosenborg trondheim for 500,000 euros .
his 12 goals in 31 matches does n't immediately take one 's breath away but consider how impotent hanover 's attack otherwise is .
since his arrival , hanover has n't earned a single point from the ten games in which ya konan has n't been able to play .
the ivorian striker was a key reason why hanover avoided relegation last season and are fourth in the table after thirteen rounds in this one .
the half-a-million hanover shelled out now seems like next to nothing .
but some other valuable contributors have in fact come even cheaper .
fabulous freebies bildunterschrift : in piszczek , dortmund got a good defender for nothing even better than unearthing bargains is finding players whose contracts are expiring and thus can be had free of transfer charges .
one increasingly important member of dortmund 's squad is right back lukasz piszczek , who forced the own goal in the 2-1 win over freiburg on saturday that kept the men in yellow 's winning streak alive .
the polish national got relegated with hertha berlin last season , but dortmund recognized his potential .
and after an initial period of adjustment , he 's established himself in a hard-to-fill position for a title-worthy squad .
another way , of course , to acquire quality is to borrow it .
mainz , of course , have done fantastically well with rising german star lewis holtby this year .
he 's actually under contract to schalke , who must be ruing the decision to send him off for a year of development he obviously does n't need .
the undisputed masters of the rent-a-talent game , though , are nuremberg .
the club , as they 're known , borrowed a quartet of players from bayern and hamburg last year and successfully avoided relegation .
bildunterschrift : schieber , right , has helped nuremberg keep an even keel this year , julian schieber from stuttgart and mehmet ekici from bayern have been key members of a squad that has kept a comfortable distance between themselves and the drop zone .
arguably , borrowing talent does little for a club 's medium-term development .
on the other hand , nuremberg are above schalke and stuttgart in the table , and mainz are better than everyone but dortmund .
so it 's hard to take them to task for temporarily acquiring some good players for free .
author : jefferson chase editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dortmund stay top , raul awakens to lead schalke bundesliga leaders borussia dortmund clinched a 2-1 win over freiburg to keep ahead at the top of the league standings .
the much-criticzed raul , meanwhile , hit a hat trick as schalke demolished bremen 4-0 .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- germany coach loew taps young dortmund talent for sweden friendly the mercurial rise of youthful dortmund in the bundesliga has not gone unnoticed .
for wednesday 's match , germany 's coach has called up a quartet of dortmunders .
some may being staying in the national squad .
-lrb- 16.11.2010 -rrb- dortmund widen first-place bundesliga lead with victory against hamburg after goals from shinji kagawa and lucas barrios , dortmund managed to shut out opponents hamburg in friday 's lone bundesliga football match , keeping the team at the top of the table .
-lrb- 12.11.2010 -rrb- 02 dw-tv europe live quadriga - the international talk show we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
women 's world cup live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's next match against france : july 5 , 18:30 utc dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report corruption soccer scandal turkish police arrest 60 people in turkey 's biggest ever soccer match-fixing scandal .
anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 23.11.2010 ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cowen has come under pressure from all sides irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf . ireland 's prime minister brian cowen pulled the country out of the frying pan of debt on sunday , only to find himself plunged into the fire of a snap election on monday .
after securing a financial rescue believed to be worth up to 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- in loans from the european union and the international monetary fund , the fianna fail party leader was forced to promise early elections as his political friends and enemies both turned on him .
" it is my intention at the conclusion of the budgetary process , with the enactment of the necessary legislation in the new year , to then seek the dissolution of parliament , " prime minister brian cowen told reporters in a hastily-called press conference .
cowen was effectively yielding to his government 's junior coalition partners , the greens , who called for elections in january , although he did n't promise that they would be held in that month .
the two main opposition parties , labour and fine gael , had demanded an immediate dissolution of parliament instead .
" what is needed now is an immediate general election so that a new government , with a clear parliamentary majority , can prepare the four-year economic plan , complete negotiations with the eu and imf and frame a budget for 2011 , " fine gael leader enda kenny wrote in an e-mailed statement .
first things first bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland requested help with its runaway debts on sunday cowen 's government is set to publish a four-year economic plan on wednesday and a new , cost-cutting budget on december 7 - a process that is crucial to secure loan payments from the eu and imf .
cowen said these processes would have to be completed before the dissolution of parliament , so as to protect ireland from financial collapse .
the junior coalition partners , the greens , pledged to support the government only until january ; party leader john gormley called on cowen to name a date for elections in the new year , saying the irish people needed " political certainty " and had been " misled and betrayed " by the prime minister 's cabinet .
for about a week , ireland had insisted that it could recover its economy without outside help , but caved in on sunday and requested a bailout from the eu and imf , following in the footsteps of greece earlier this year .
the country faces a budget deficit of 32 percent of gross domestic product , a figure which has ballooned because of the government bailout of its largest moneylender , anglo-irish bank .
even without this extra expense , the country 's 2010 shortfall would have comfortably exceeded the eu 's prescribed limit of 3 percent of gdp .
tough sell for european leaders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel may struggle to convince her party and her people that germany should foot part of the irish bill german chancellor angela merkel said on monday that the irish rescue was " positive overall , " because under the terms of the new deal , dublin would be forced to obey terms set by the eu and imf .
merkel said the rescue package was necessary to stabilize the european single currency , the euro .
a similar loan package for greece earlier this year , the first of its kind , was particularly unpopular in germany , not least among merkel 's conservative christian democratic union .
britain 's cash-strapped government , which is implementing its own series of tough austerity measures , also came under fire for contributing to the irish rescue , but the government defended the action .
" ireland is a friend in need , and we are here to help , " the conservative chancellor of the exchequer , george osborne said .
also on monday , the credit ratings agency moody 's said it would probably downgrade ireland 's sovereign debt by several notches in light of the eu-imf rescue .
author : mark hallam -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- eu agrees bailout for ireland eu finance ministers have agreed on a bailout fund for ireland to tackle the country 's huge budget deficit and save its banking sector .
it 's the second eu bailout package this year .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- germany denies pressuring ireland over business tax a german government spokesman said ireland should be allowed to determine its own corporation tax rate , despite recent pressure from a senior finance expert in chancellor angela merkel 's party .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic what is the real price of aid for ireland 's government ? -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- the people of ireland face tough times -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- how the rescue package works -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- feedback has cowen made the right move , and did he have a choice ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 23.11.2010 ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cowen has come under pressure from all sides irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf . ireland 's prime minister brian cowen pulled the country out of the frying pan of debt on sunday , only to find himself plunged into the fire of a snap election on monday .
after securing a financial rescue believed to be worth up to 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- in loans from the european union and the international monetary fund , the fianna fail party leader was forced to promise early elections as his political friends and enemies both turned on him .
" it is my intention at the conclusion of the budgetary process , with the enactment of the necessary legislation in the new year , to then seek the dissolution of parliament , " prime minister brian cowen told reporters in a hastily-called press conference .
cowen was effectively yielding to his government 's junior coalition partners , the greens , who called for elections in january , although he did n't promise that they would be held in that month .
the two main opposition parties , labour and fine gael , had demanded an immediate dissolution of parliament instead .
" what is needed now is an immediate general election so that a new government , with a clear parliamentary majority , can prepare the four-year economic plan , complete negotiations with the eu and imf and frame a budget for 2011 , " fine gael leader enda kenny wrote in an e-mailed statement .
first things first bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland requested help with its runaway debts on sunday cowen 's government is set to publish a four-year economic plan on wednesday and a new , cost-cutting budget on december 7 - a process that is crucial to secure loan payments from the eu and imf .
cowen said these processes would have to be completed before the dissolution of parliament , so as to protect ireland from financial collapse .
the junior coalition partners , the greens , pledged to support the government only until january ; party leader john gormley called on cowen to name a date for elections in the new year , saying the irish people needed " political certainty " and had been " misled and betrayed " by the prime minister 's cabinet .
for about a week , ireland had insisted that it could recover its economy without outside help , but caved in on sunday and requested a bailout from the eu and imf , following in the footsteps of greece earlier this year .
the country faces a budget deficit of 32 percent of gross domestic product , a figure which has ballooned because of the government bailout of its largest moneylender , anglo-irish bank .
even without this extra expense , the country 's 2010 shortfall would have comfortably exceeded the eu 's prescribed limit of 3 percent of gdp .
tough sell for european leaders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel may struggle to convince her party and her people that germany should foot part of the irish bill german chancellor angela merkel said on monday that the irish rescue was " positive overall , " because under the terms of the new deal , dublin would be forced to obey terms set by the eu and imf .
merkel said the rescue package was necessary to stabilize the european single currency , the euro .
a similar loan package for greece earlier this year , the first of its kind , was particularly unpopular in germany , not least among merkel 's conservative christian democratic union .
britain 's cash-strapped government , which is implementing its own series of tough austerity measures , also came under fire for contributing to the irish rescue , but the government defended the action .
" ireland is a friend in need , and we are here to help , " the conservative chancellor of the exchequer , george osborne said .
also on monday , the credit ratings agency moody 's said it would probably downgrade ireland 's sovereign debt by several notches in light of the eu-imf rescue .
author : mark hallam -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- eu agrees bailout for ireland eu finance ministers have agreed on a bailout fund for ireland to tackle the country 's huge budget deficit and save its banking sector .
it 's the second eu bailout package this year .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- germany denies pressuring ireland over business tax a german government spokesman said ireland should be allowed to determine its own corporation tax rate , despite recent pressure from a senior finance expert in chancellor angela merkel 's party .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic what is the real price of aid for ireland 's government ? -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- the people of ireland face tough times -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- how the rescue package works -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- 02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 23.11.2010 bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : borriello fell , but retained his composure to start the fight back bayern munich suffered a shock defeat against champions league rivals roma , conceding two late goals .
the italians came out on top despite a two-goal lead for the bavarians through in-form mario gomez . bayern munich squandered a two-goal lead to hand victory to champions league opponents roma in tuesday 's soccer action .
louis van gaal 's men , who have already qualified for the knockout stages of the competition , went ahead through two goals from in-form striker mario gomez .
although roma started well , it was gomez who broke the deadlock on 34 minutes , when franck ribery skillfully turned the ball to gomez , who beat defender marco cassetti to put the ball into the corner of goal .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gomez has scored 14 goals in his last 10 games five minutes later , a misplaced pass from roma 's jeremy menez was picked up by thomas mueller .
the german midfielder 's pass allowed gomez to double his tally , firing in across goalkeeper julio sergio .
the goal means gomez has now scored 14 goals in his last 10 games .
with bayern cruising , it was up to roma to muster a strong comeback if they were to boost their chances of qualification .
the italian revival began after the restart , when roma coach claudio ranieri moved menez from behind the attack to wide right .
menez easily beat bayern 's anatoliy tymoshchuk and martin demichelis to cross the ball for forward marco borriello .
although boriello fell as tried to control the pass , he was still able to flick the ball into goal past keeper thomas kraft .
late goals seal win the equalizer came nine minutes from time , as john arne riise fired the ball across the box for daniele de rossi to put away .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern have a superior record in their head-to-head encounters with roma substitute francesco totti made it 3-2 from the penalty spot on 84 minutes , after borriello was brought down by goalkeeper thomas kraft .
coach louis van gaal criticized his side for throwing away a lead .
" the problem was , we lost too many balls and gave too many chances to roma , " said van gaal .
" we ’ ve thrown away a game again . " van gaal 's criticism of his players comes as the dutch coach is increasingly under fire for his management style . on tuesday , midfielder ribery said he was disappointed to hear van gaal accuse him of a lacklustre performance in a friendly against third division side unterhaching .
van gaal has also been accused of arrogance by club boss uli hoeness . bayern still top group e with 12 points and can not be supplanted by second-place roma , who have an inferior head-to head record with the bavarians .
in wednesday 's champions league football , schalke play host to lyon and bremen are away to london side tottenham hotspur .
author : richard connor -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : catherine bolsover send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich coast to win over nuremberg bayern munich wrapped up the 12th bundesliga match day with an easy win over nuremberg .
freiburg scored an extra time goal to squeak out a victory against hoffenheim .
-lrb- 14.11.2010 -rrb- by luck or judgment , van gaal has bayern back on course forced for months to withstand talk of " crisis , " bundesliga giant bayern munich are beginning to stir .
with champions league progress now secure , the bavarians may get down to business - and rip through the league .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- bayern ease through to champions league knockout phase germany international mario gomez was given a rare start as bayern munich outplayed romanian side cfr cluj 4-0 on wednesday .
gomez contributed with a hat trick , helping his team to the champions league knockout stages .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- feedback should bayern focus all their efforts on european success this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
02 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
police overworked and increasingly at risk , says new union chief -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 23.11.2010 police overworked and increasingly at risk , says new union chief großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police are often spread too thinly in germany a day after being elected as the new head of the german police workers ' union , bernhard witthaut said german police are spread too thin , overworked and increasingly at risk . bernhard witthaut , the newly-elected head of germany 's police workers union , had not even been in office for a full day before drawing attention to the overworked state of germany 's police force .
on monday , witthaut was elected by his colleagues at a national meeting of the police union to lead the organization , and tuesday morning , witthaut gave an interview with german public radio outlining some of the problems facing german police .
" in light of recent terror warnings and also situations where a large contingent of police has been necessary , we have reached the limits of our capacities , " witthaut said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : witthaut says police have reached their limits in recent weeks , security scares related to failed parcel bombs and media reports outlining a " bloodbath " massacre at the german parliament building has led the interior ministry to increase the presence of security forces at large gatherings and public transportation hubs .
last legs large-scale demonstrations have also required additional a heightened security presence .
the recent transport of nuclear waste to the gorleben storage facility in northern germany came with a price tag of around 50 million euros for security needed to clear protestors out of the way of the transport containers .
in september , demonstrations against a planned train station renovation project in stuttgart made headlines when police and protestors clashed violently .
meanwhile , cuts to police forces and hiring freezes in many states have led to police resources being spread too thin , said witthaut .
" they 're really on their last legs , " he said of germany 's police officers .
political scapegoats christian pfeiffer , director of the criminology research institute of lower saxony , says the current political situation in germany is n't making things any easier for police officers .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police action in stuttgart has been widely criticized " it 's a new problem that the police have to iron out difficulties when political decisions are made without adequate justification or explanation , " pfeiffer told deutsche welle .
" the police are turned into scapegoats when politicians make mistakes with the transparency of their decisions . "
terror warnings issued by the interior ministry , such as the one last week calling on german citizens to remain alert but not to panic , are sometimes vague .
the glass cupola of the german parliament building was recently closed to visitors after media reports of a planned terror attack there , but the government insisted it was all precautionary and would not confirm or deny the media reports .
" even here , there is no transparency , " said pfeiffer .
" it 's not clear if this is really necessary or if this is just a demonstration by the internal security politicians to show they have everything under control . "
risk of violence adding to the stress in a police officer 's life is the growing trend of violence against police .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many police were needed to clear the way to gorleben this has been a subject of debate in german media and the police workers union for some time , but a 2010 study authored by pfeiffer at the criminal research institute has supported these speculations with concrete facts .
the study surveyed over 20,000 police officers in ten german states about violence they encountered on the job in the last five years .
pfeiffer said instances where an officer had to be taken off the job for at least seven days because of injuries sustained due to violence on the job had grown by 60 percent .
" someone who is stressed is less likely to react appropriately in a conflict situation than they normally would , " said pfeiffer .
" the risk - also due to being overworked - of sustaining a serious injury increases for that reason . "
use of bundeswehr troops one solution floated by klaus jansen , head of the association of german criminologists , is to use bundeswehr soldiers in a supporting role with police .
" we have to assume , that the exceptional use of additional police because of the current threat of terrorism will continue well into next year , " jansen said in an interview with the neue osnabruecker zeitung newspaper .
using bundeswehr troops to support normal police presents a legal question - it would require an amendment to the german constitution - but christian pfeiffer thinks there is a better solution .
he says if criminality - not a lack of resources or overburdened police officers - was addressed at a political level and could be reduced , then the current level of police officers in germany would be adequate for them to properly do their job .
pfeiffer thinks bundeswehr troops should - as they have in the past - only be used to support police in emergency situations such as floods .
author : matt zuvela editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warned that some dangers were being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nuclear waste shipment continues to spark determined protests the train shipment of nuclear waste to a storage site in northern germany has sparked massive protests and blockades .
the last stretch is to be completed on tuesday by trucks , but activists have vowed to block the way .
-lrb- 08.11.2010 -rrb- police use water cannons , tear gas on stuttgart train station opponents opponents of stuttgart 's planned train station renovation project have clashed with police in the city 's schlossgarten park , where 25 trees are to be cut down in connection with the project .
-lrb- 30.09.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live politik direkt - das politikmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
senior policeman charged over germany-bound hoax bomb -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 23.11.2010 senior policeman charged over germany-bound hoax bomb großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police in germany are on high alert for terrorism a senior namibian police officer has been charged with the planting of a fake bomb amid luggage bound for germany .
berlin denies involvement in a security operation , reports say . a high-ranking airport police officer was charged on monday over the planting of a fake bomb in luggage on its way from namibia to germany .
the 51-year-old man was charged at a magistrates ' court in the namibian capital of windhoek with breaking airport and explosive laws .
namibian police said the man had worked for airport security for at least five years , and that there was no apparent motive for the planting of the fake device .
german news agency dpa said that berlin 's ambassador in windhoek , egon kochanke , had denied reports that a security exercise at the airport involving germany had played a role in the incident .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fake device was found in a screening area at the airport " there was no such thing as a german security exercise with a dummy luggage bomb , " kochanke said .
claims of german involvement in exercise a namibian newspaper had earlier reported that an unnamed cabinet member from the country had complained that germany 's involvement had been " reckless and irresponsible . "
the claim that german authorities were involved had also been denied by the namibian government .
the device was found in a luggage screening area at windhoek 's hosea kutako airport and led to the delay of an air berlin flight to munich . an x-ray investigation had revealed a detonator wired to batteries was present , along with a clock - but no explosive material was found .
germany is currently on alert , with warnings of heightened terrorism threats .
public access to the reichstag , germany 's parliament building , was restricted on monday after weekend reports that islamist militants had plans to attack the berlin landmark .
author : richard connor -lrb- dpa , ap -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de does germany need color-coded security ?
experts disagree on the merits of terror alert levels as germany steps up security over concerns of a possible islamist attack .
the country does not have a warning system like those in the uk and the us .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warn that some dangers are being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- suspect package in namibia was a ' dummy , ' says interior minister the suspicious package found at a namibian airport en route to munich was a " dummy , " according to the german interior minister thomas de maiziere .
investigations have begun to find out who bought and planted the case .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 23.11.2010 portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portugal is seen as a future candidate for help portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next . portuguese prime minister jose socrates said on monday that his country 's economy remained robust and that there was no need for lisbon to ask for a financial rescue package .
the comments came after ireland conceded in agreeing to apply for a financial bailout program from the european union and international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portuguese prime minister socrates welcomed the irish acceptance of help portugal is high on the list of possible future rescue package recipients .
however , socrates said that his country 's financial system was performing well and said that its level of public debt - expected to be 7.3 percent for 2010 - was in line with the eu average .
" there are no links between portugal and ireland , " said socrates .
" i 've heard a lot of talk of the imf .
the country does not have any need for aid . "
the prime minister said he hoped that the irish acceptance of a financial package , which follows that of greece earlier in the year , would reassure nervous lending markets .
" i hope that the fact that ireland has asked for european union funds will permit the situation on the markets to return to normal , because portugal is feeling the effects of contagion very much , " said socrates .
lisbon keen to stay in driving seat like the irish administration , which had been reluctant to seek assistance , portugal 's socialist government is keen to avoid the need for outside help and any resulting loss of sovereignty .
such a course of action could prove unpopular with the electorate , with many older voters remembering traumatic interventions by the imf in the 1970s and 1980s .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish rescue deal follows a bailout for greece earlier this year this led to public spending being slashed at a time when the welfare system was too insufficient to provide proper protection for those affected .
however , some believe that both the imf 's approach and the situation of a more developed portugal in 2010 mean that a bailout is not so unthinkable .
" i think the mood against the imf is changing slightly , " economist pedro lains told deutsche welle .
" you see people who are responsible - officials and those connected to the opposition social democratic party - now they are changing their discourse slightly : they 're saying it is not a drama , that if it comes maybe it 's necessary . "
the center-right social democrat opposition has said it will not vote against the state budget for 2011 .
included in the budget are plans to cut public sector salaries and narrow the deficit to 4.6 percent of gdp .
away from parliament , a general strike was planned for wednesday - the first in two decades to be called by both of portugal 's two main trade union federations .
spain also claims to be different in neighboring spain , another country viewed as likely to need help , prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero said there were differences with the irish situation .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland 's prime minister is facing elections after the budget is approved zapatero 's socialist party 's organizational secretary , marcelino iglesias , quoted the premier as saying that bank stress tests during the summer - to assess the preparedness of banks for another financial crisis - had shown that the spanish financial sector was strong .
dublin 's economic woes stem in large part from the necessity to provide its own multi-billion euro financial aid plan to the troubled anglo-irish bank .
a spokesman for the eu 's economics commissioner also ruled out the risk of ireland 's problems precipitating a domino effect .
" there are no analogies to be made ; the irish case is very specific , " spokesman amadeu altafaj told reporters in brussels .
" the decisions concerning ireland are also meant to stop any possible tension and contagion to other economies , " he added .
the dublin rescue package - which could amount to as much as 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- - was agreed on sunday .
author : alison roberts , richard connor -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- portuguese government seals deal on austerity budget portugal 's minority socialist government has reached a deal with the country 's center-right opposition to introduce an austerity budget .
the agreement is seen as crucial step in averting political and financial chaos .
-lrb- 31.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic portugal could be the next candidate for financial aid -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- feedback are more countries likely to need help to reassure markets ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany decades later , film classic ' metropolis ' still impresses listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think google street view is intrusive ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 23.11.2010 dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : buying kagawa was one of the smartest and cheapest things dortmund have done " money scores goals " - so the old football cliche .
but while some pricey transfers have yet to yield dividends , players acquired for relatively little or nothing at all have been setting german soccer on fire . 350,000 euros is a fair amount of a money - enough , for instance , to purchase a comfortable dwelling in a decent neighborhood in most european cities .
but it 's not sufficient to buy the top-scoring midfielder in a major european football league .
unless , of course , that player is shinji kagawa .
dortmund 's acquisition of the japanese whirlwind for the soccer equivalent of loose change has been one of the stories of the year .
but it 's actually fairly typical both of the dortmund squad overall and a topsy-turvy season in which bargains have outperformed big-name signings .
germany 's sportbild newspaper recently did some math and discovered that the dortmund side currently steamrolling the league cost the club less than one-sixth of what it paid for its 2002 squad , the last time dortmund won the bundesliga .
bildunterschrift : barrios ' value has shot through the roof from back to front , dortmund have been getting excellent returns on modest investments .
even the club 's top striker , lukas barrios , only cost 4.5 million euros -lrb- $ 6.2 million -rrb- in transfer fees , a pittance compared with the sums bayern munich paid for mario gomez -lrb- ca .
35 million euros -rrb- or schalke for klaas-jan huntelaar -lrb- 14 million -rrb- .
kagawa and barrios illustrate the impact that good scouting can have .
discovering new talent may be harder than opening up the purse strings to purchase established players ' services , but it 's a better way to improve a squad .
persistence pays off bildunterschrift : cisse was worth the wait for freiburg if barrios is a bargain , freiburg 's papiss demba cisse is nothing short of sensation .
in 29 games for the small southern german club , the senegalese striker has scored 16 goals .
the 1.5 million euros freiburg paid to acquire him from french club metz in the winter break last year may be the highest transfer sum in club history , but he 's been worth every cent .
by comparison , lukas podolski , who cost cologne 10 million , only has 6 goals in 40 matches .
freiburg were originally rebuffed by metz when they made their first bid for cisse at the start of last season .
but they hung tough in pursuit of the man they wanted , and their patience has been rewarded .
bildunterschrift : ya konan has given hanover reason to smile another steal has been hanover 's didier ya konan who came in at the beginning of last season from rosenborg trondheim for 500,000 euros .
his 12 goals in 31 matches does n't immediately take one 's breath away but consider how impotent hanover 's attack otherwise is .
since his arrival , hanover has n't earned a single point from the ten games in which ya konan has n't been able to play .
the ivorian striker was a key reason why hanover avoided relegation last season and are fourth in the table after thirteen rounds in this one .
the half-a-million hanover shelled out now seems like next to nothing .
but some other valuable contributors have in fact come even cheaper .
fabulous freebies bildunterschrift : in piszczek , dortmund got a good defender for nothing even better than unearthing bargains is finding players whose contracts are expiring and thus can be had free of transfer charges .
one increasingly important member of dortmund 's squad is right back lukasz piszczek , who forced the own goal in the 2-1 win over freiburg on saturday that kept the men in yellow 's winning streak alive .
the polish national got relegated with hertha berlin last season , but dortmund recognized his potential .
and after an initial period of adjustment , he 's established himself in a hard-to-fill position for a title-worthy squad .
another way , of course , to acquire quality is to borrow it .
mainz , of course , have done fantastically well with rising german star lewis holtby this year .
he 's actually under contract to schalke , who must be ruing the decision to send him off for a year of development he obviously does n't need .
the undisputed masters of the rent-a-talent game , though , are nuremberg .
the club , as they 're known , borrowed a quartet of players from bayern and hamburg last year and successfully avoided relegation .
bildunterschrift : schieber , right , has helped nuremberg keep an even keel this year , julian schieber from stuttgart and mehmet ekici from bayern have been key members of a squad that has kept a comfortable distance between themselves and the drop zone .
arguably , borrowing talent does little for a club 's medium-term development .
on the other hand , nuremberg are above schalke and stuttgart in the table , and mainz are better than everyone but dortmund .
so it 's hard to take them to task for temporarily acquiring some good players for free .
author : jefferson chase editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dortmund stay top , raul awakens to lead schalke bundesliga leaders borussia dortmund clinched a 2-1 win over freiburg to keep ahead at the top of the league standings .
the much-criticzed raul , meanwhile , hit a hat trick as schalke demolished bremen 4-0 .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- germany coach loew taps young dortmund talent for sweden friendly the mercurial rise of youthful dortmund in the bundesliga has not gone unnoticed .
for wednesday 's match , germany 's coach has called up a quartet of dortmunders .
some may being staying in the national squad .
-lrb- 16.11.2010 -rrb- dortmund widen first-place bundesliga lead with victory against hamburg after goals from shinji kagawa and lucas barrios , dortmund managed to shut out opponents hamburg in friday 's lone bundesliga football match , keeping the team at the top of the table .
-lrb- 12.11.2010 -rrb- 9797 dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
women 's world cup live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's next match against france : july 5 , 18:30 utc dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report corruption soccer scandal turkish police arrest 60 people in turkey 's biggest ever soccer match-fixing scandal .
anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 23.11.2010 ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cowen has come under pressure from all sides irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf . ireland 's prime minister brian cowen pulled the country out of the frying pan of debt on sunday , only to find himself plunged into the fire of a snap election on monday .
after securing a financial rescue believed to be worth up to 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- in loans from the european union and the international monetary fund , the fianna fail party leader was forced to promise early elections as his political friends and enemies both turned on him .
" it is my intention at the conclusion of the budgetary process , with the enactment of the necessary legislation in the new year , to then seek the dissolution of parliament , " prime minister brian cowen told reporters in a hastily-called press conference .
cowen was effectively yielding to his government 's junior coalition partners , the greens , who called for elections in january , although he did n't promise that they would be held in that month .
the two main opposition parties , labour and fine gael , had demanded an immediate dissolution of parliament instead .
" what is needed now is an immediate general election so that a new government , with a clear parliamentary majority , can prepare the four-year economic plan , complete negotiations with the eu and imf and frame a budget for 2011 , " fine gael leader enda kenny wrote in an e-mailed statement .
first things first bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland requested help with its runaway debts on sunday cowen 's government is set to publish a four-year economic plan on wednesday and a new , cost-cutting budget on december 7 - a process that is crucial to secure loan payments from the eu and imf .
cowen said these processes would have to be completed before the dissolution of parliament , so as to protect ireland from financial collapse .
the junior coalition partners , the greens , pledged to support the government only until january ; party leader john gormley called on cowen to name a date for elections in the new year , saying the irish people needed " political certainty " and had been " misled and betrayed " by the prime minister 's cabinet .
for about a week , ireland had insisted that it could recover its economy without outside help , but caved in on sunday and requested a bailout from the eu and imf , following in the footsteps of greece earlier this year .
the country faces a budget deficit of 32 percent of gross domestic product , a figure which has ballooned because of the government bailout of its largest moneylender , anglo-irish bank .
even without this extra expense , the country 's 2010 shortfall would have comfortably exceeded the eu 's prescribed limit of 3 percent of gdp .
tough sell for european leaders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel may struggle to convince her party and her people that germany should foot part of the irish bill german chancellor angela merkel said on monday that the irish rescue was " positive overall , " because under the terms of the new deal , dublin would be forced to obey terms set by the eu and imf .
merkel said the rescue package was necessary to stabilize the european single currency , the euro .
a similar loan package for greece earlier this year , the first of its kind , was particularly unpopular in germany , not least among merkel 's conservative christian democratic union .
britain 's cash-strapped government , which is implementing its own series of tough austerity measures , also came under fire for contributing to the irish rescue , but the government defended the action .
" ireland is a friend in need , and we are here to help , " the conservative chancellor of the exchequer , george osborne said .
also on monday , the credit ratings agency moody 's said it would probably downgrade ireland 's sovereign debt by several notches in light of the eu-imf rescue .
author : mark hallam -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- eu agrees bailout for ireland eu finance ministers have agreed on a bailout fund for ireland to tackle the country 's huge budget deficit and save its banking sector .
it 's the second eu bailout package this year .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- germany denies pressuring ireland over business tax a german government spokesman said ireland should be allowed to determine its own corporation tax rate , despite recent pressure from a senior finance expert in chancellor angela merkel 's party .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic what is the real price of aid for ireland 's government ? -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- the people of ireland face tough times -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- how the rescue package works -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- feedback has cowen made the right move , and did he have a choice ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air artistic happenings across europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 23.11.2010 portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portugal is seen as a future candidate for help portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next . portuguese prime minister jose socrates said on monday that his country 's economy remained robust and that there was no need for lisbon to ask for a financial rescue package .
the comments came after ireland conceded in agreeing to apply for a financial bailout program from the european union and international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portuguese prime minister socrates welcomed the irish acceptance of help portugal is high on the list of possible future rescue package recipients .
however , socrates said that his country 's financial system was performing well and said that its level of public debt - expected to be 7.3 percent for 2010 - was in line with the eu average .
" there are no links between portugal and ireland , " said socrates .
" i 've heard a lot of talk of the imf .
the country does not have any need for aid . "
the prime minister said he hoped that the irish acceptance of a financial package , which follows that of greece earlier in the year , would reassure nervous lending markets .
" i hope that the fact that ireland has asked for european union funds will permit the situation on the markets to return to normal , because portugal is feeling the effects of contagion very much , " said socrates .
lisbon keen to stay in driving seat like the irish administration , which had been reluctant to seek assistance , portugal 's socialist government is keen to avoid the need for outside help and any resulting loss of sovereignty .
such a course of action could prove unpopular with the electorate , with many older voters remembering traumatic interventions by the imf in the 1970s and 1980s .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish rescue deal follows a bailout for greece earlier this year this led to public spending being slashed at a time when the welfare system was too insufficient to provide proper protection for those affected .
however , some believe that both the imf 's approach and the situation of a more developed portugal in 2010 mean that a bailout is not so unthinkable .
" i think the mood against the imf is changing slightly , " economist pedro lains told deutsche welle .
" you see people who are responsible - officials and those connected to the opposition social democratic party - now they are changing their discourse slightly : they 're saying it is not a drama , that if it comes maybe it 's necessary . "
the center-right social democrat opposition has said it will not vote against the state budget for 2011 .
included in the budget are plans to cut public sector salaries and narrow the deficit to 4.6 percent of gdp .
away from parliament , a general strike was planned for wednesday - the first in two decades to be called by both of portugal 's two main trade union federations .
spain also claims to be different in neighboring spain , another country viewed as likely to need help , prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero said there were differences with the irish situation .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland 's prime minister is facing elections after the budget is approved zapatero 's socialist party 's organizational secretary , marcelino iglesias , quoted the premier as saying that bank stress tests during the summer - to assess the preparedness of banks for another financial crisis - had shown that the spanish financial sector was strong .
dublin 's economic woes stem in large part from the necessity to provide its own multi-billion euro financial aid plan to the troubled anglo-irish bank .
a spokesman for the eu 's economics commissioner also ruled out the risk of ireland 's problems precipitating a domino effect .
" there are no analogies to be made ; the irish case is very specific , " spokesman amadeu altafaj told reporters in brussels .
" the decisions concerning ireland are also meant to stop any possible tension and contagion to other economies , " he added .
the dublin rescue package - which could amount to as much as 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- - was agreed on sunday .
author : alison roberts , richard connor -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- portuguese government seals deal on austerity budget portugal 's minority socialist government has reached a deal with the country 's center-right opposition to introduce an austerity budget .
the agreement is seen as crucial step in averting political and financial chaos .
-lrb- 31.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic portugal could be the next candidate for financial aid -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in good shape - the health show we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet greening europe 's farms listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio ethics a frenchwoman wrote to the president on her deathbed , pleading for her son 's right to die .
listen to the audio espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 23.11.2010 latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- is where latvians go to send telegrams while many countries around the world have given up the telegraph , it 's still in use in the baltics .
ordinary residents can send them via latvian post , while latvian railway continues to use them to post speed limits . despite the wide prevalence of e-mail and mobile phones , and the demise of the telegraph in most parts of europe , some latvians , including the state railway , still use the telegraph as a primary means of communication .
this month , latvia celebrates the 158th anniversary of the arrival of the electric telegraph in their country .
the telegraph service is operated by the national company latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the first latvian telegraph was sent on nov .
1 , 1852 karīna jankovska , manager of production development at latvia post said that around 200 telegrams continue to be sent within the baltic country every month , or almost seven per day .
in addition , there are approximately 140 telegraphic messages being sent to foreign countries and about 300 international telegrams are being received in latvia on a monthly basis .
the authorities say that the service is still important for those latvians who want to stay in touch with their friends or relatives abroad .
they mostly send telegrams to the former soviet republics like russia , belarus and ukraine .
the telegraph also allows sending and receiving of official documents , like visa declarations .
alternative to e-mail telegrams , which cost just 0.80 latvian lats -lrb- 1.15 euros -rrb- for a domestic message , can be sent from every post office across the country .
one just has to ask the postman for a telegram form and fill in the required information : the name and surname of the sender , the address of the recipient and the message .
however , latvia post admits that the small number of messages that are sent tend to be sent almost exclusively by older latvians who do not use e-mails nor mobile phones , and by those who prefer it for nostalgic reasons .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvian railways continues to use the telegraph for everyday operations " for example , one can easily send a wedding invitation , " jankovska added . " the sender simply has to write the text and pay extra seven cents for each written word .
i think that most of the people use telegrams nowadays because it is interesting . "
forget about morse code the first public electromagnetic telegraph line in the territory of latvia was opened on november 1 , 1852 .
the line connected the capital city of riga with bolderāja , a nearby residential town .
it was the longest civilian telegraph line in the northern europe at the time and the first telegram was sent in german .
but the telegraph technology has changed greatly during the years .
latvia post doesn ’ t employ any vintage telegraph equipment used in the old days in order to provide the telegram service .
all the telegrams are now being sent by computer over the internet using a special e-mail system between the post offices .
the message is printed out with a printer and then delivered to the addressee by the postman the following day .
meanwhile , the telegraphic messages are being used in business as well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the telegraph remains a bit of an anachronism in modern-day riga the latvian railway still uses teletype to communicate between the stations , freight senders and the ports .
for instance , the company utilizes the old-fashioned technology in situations when any speed limitations have to be imposed on the railway network .
" we don ’ t have yet -lsb- this -rsb- so-called e-signature , " said antra birzule , a latvian railway spokesperson .
by contrast , latvia 's northern neighbor , estonia , has had digital signatures and publicly-provided encrypted e-mail for almost a decade .
" those documents sent by teletype are documented as an official document .
if it ’ s just an e-mail it doesn ’ t work yet in latvia at such a high level because in the railway , the key issue is safety .
so , we still rely on the teletype . "
special place in latvian history many latvians are either unaware of , or have forgotten the telegraph 's key role in latvia ’ s fight for restoration of its independence back in january 1991 .
the soviet political and military forces tried to overthrow the latvian authorities by occupying important governmental institutions .
" when the telephone lines were shut down by the kgb , the so called telex central was still operating , " explained ļevs datelis , a latvian telecommunications engineer and expert on latvian telegraph history . " the soviet secret police didn ’ t pay much attention to it and the latvian politicians used it for communication .
it also enabled them to communicate with foreign countries . "
however , despite this history , karīna jankovska of latvia post added that even though the telegram service does n't lose money , the company plans on shutting down the telegram service by 2015 .
author : ģederts ģelzis , riga editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de row breaks out over latvia 's main anti-corruption body plans to shift the focus of the fight against corruption in latvia from the capital riga to the regions will just weaken the anti-corruption drive , critics say .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- economic recovery at stake in latvian elections latvia is just weeks away from its next general election .
one of the key issues is the country 's fledgling economic recovery .
but the party that is leading in the opinion polls wants to forge closer ties with russia .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- riga on a shoestring want to explore europe but you 're on a tight budget ?
pulse takes you to some of europe 's most interesting cities and proves you do n't have to spend a fortune .
in this edition , dw 's gederts gelzis shows you around riga .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 23.11.2010 latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- is where latvians go to send telegrams while many countries around the world have given up the telegraph , it 's still in use in the baltics .
ordinary residents can send them via latvian post , while latvian railway continues to use them to post speed limits . despite the wide prevalence of e-mail and mobile phones , and the demise of the telegraph in most parts of europe , some latvians , including the state railway , still use the telegraph as a primary means of communication .
this month , latvia celebrates the 158th anniversary of the arrival of the electric telegraph in their country .
the telegraph service is operated by the national company latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the first latvian telegraph was sent on nov .
1 , 1852 karīna jankovska , manager of production development at latvia post said that around 200 telegrams continue to be sent within the baltic country every month , or almost seven per day .
in addition , there are approximately 140 telegraphic messages being sent to foreign countries and about 300 international telegrams are being received in latvia on a monthly basis .
the authorities say that the service is still important for those latvians who want to stay in touch with their friends or relatives abroad .
they mostly send telegrams to the former soviet republics like russia , belarus and ukraine .
the telegraph also allows sending and receiving of official documents , like visa declarations .
alternative to e-mail telegrams , which cost just 0.80 latvian lats -lrb- 1.15 euros -rrb- for a domestic message , can be sent from every post office across the country .
one just has to ask the postman for a telegram form and fill in the required information : the name and surname of the sender , the address of the recipient and the message .
however , latvia post admits that the small number of messages that are sent tend to be sent almost exclusively by older latvians who do not use e-mails nor mobile phones , and by those who prefer it for nostalgic reasons .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvian railways continues to use the telegraph for everyday operations " for example , one can easily send a wedding invitation , " jankovska added . " the sender simply has to write the text and pay extra seven cents for each written word .
i think that most of the people use telegrams nowadays because it is interesting . "
forget about morse code the first public electromagnetic telegraph line in the territory of latvia was opened on november 1 , 1852 .
the line connected the capital city of riga with bolderāja , a nearby residential town .
it was the longest civilian telegraph line in the northern europe at the time and the first telegram was sent in german .
but the telegraph technology has changed greatly during the years .
latvia post doesn ’ t employ any vintage telegraph equipment used in the old days in order to provide the telegram service .
all the telegrams are now being sent by computer over the internet using a special e-mail system between the post offices .
the message is printed out with a printer and then delivered to the addressee by the postman the following day .
meanwhile , the telegraphic messages are being used in business as well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the telegraph remains a bit of an anachronism in modern-day riga the latvian railway still uses teletype to communicate between the stations , freight senders and the ports .
for instance , the company utilizes the old-fashioned technology in situations when any speed limitations have to be imposed on the railway network .
" we don ’ t have yet -lsb- this -rsb- so-called e-signature , " said antra birzule , a latvian railway spokesperson .
by contrast , latvia 's northern neighbor , estonia , has had digital signatures and publicly-provided encrypted e-mail for almost a decade .
" those documents sent by teletype are documented as an official document .
if it ’ s just an e-mail it doesn ’ t work yet in latvia at such a high level because in the railway , the key issue is safety .
so , we still rely on the teletype . "
special place in latvian history many latvians are either unaware of , or have forgotten the telegraph 's key role in latvia ’ s fight for restoration of its independence back in january 1991 .
the soviet political and military forces tried to overthrow the latvian authorities by occupying important governmental institutions .
" when the telephone lines were shut down by the kgb , the so called telex central was still operating , " explained ļevs datelis , a latvian telecommunications engineer and expert on latvian telegraph history . " the soviet secret police didn ’ t pay much attention to it and the latvian politicians used it for communication .
it also enabled them to communicate with foreign countries . "
however , despite this history , karīna jankovska of latvia post added that even though the telegram service does n't lose money , the company plans on shutting down the telegram service by 2015 .
author : ģederts ģelzis , riga editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de row breaks out over latvia 's main anti-corruption body plans to shift the focus of the fight against corruption in latvia from the capital riga to the regions will just weaken the anti-corruption drive , critics say .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- economic recovery at stake in latvian elections latvia is just weeks away from its next general election .
one of the key issues is the country 's fledgling economic recovery .
but the party that is leading in the opinion polls wants to forge closer ties with russia .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- riga on a shoestring want to explore europe but you 're on a tight budget ?
pulse takes you to some of europe 's most interesting cities and proves you do n't have to spend a fortune .
in this edition , dw 's gederts gelzis shows you around riga .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years feedback have you ever sent a telegram ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 23.11.2010 bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : borriello fell , but retained his composure to start the fight back bayern munich suffered a shock defeat against champions league rivals roma , conceding two late goals .
the italians came out on top despite a two-goal lead for the bavarians through in-form mario gomez . bayern munich squandered a two-goal lead to hand victory to champions league opponents roma in tuesday 's soccer action .
louis van gaal 's men , who have already qualified for the knockout stages of the competition , went ahead through two goals from in-form striker mario gomez .
although roma started well , it was gomez who broke the deadlock on 34 minutes , when franck ribery skillfully turned the ball to gomez , who beat defender marco cassetti to put the ball into the corner of goal .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gomez has scored 14 goals in his last 10 games five minutes later , a misplaced pass from roma 's jeremy menez was picked up by thomas mueller .
the german midfielder 's pass allowed gomez to double his tally , firing in across goalkeeper julio sergio .
the goal means gomez has now scored 14 goals in his last 10 games .
with bayern cruising , it was up to roma to muster a strong comeback if they were to boost their chances of qualification .
the italian revival began after the restart , when roma coach claudio ranieri moved menez from behind the attack to wide right .
menez easily beat bayern 's anatoliy tymoshchuk and martin demichelis to cross the ball for forward marco borriello .
although boriello fell as tried to control the pass , he was still able to flick the ball into goal past keeper thomas kraft .
late goals seal win the equalizer came nine minutes from time , as john arne riise fired the ball across the box for daniele de rossi to put away .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern have a superior record in their head-to-head encounters with roma substitute francesco totti made it 3-2 from the penalty spot on 84 minutes , after borriello was brought down by goalkeeper thomas kraft .
coach louis van gaal criticized his side for throwing away a lead .
" the problem was , we lost too many balls and gave too many chances to roma , " said van gaal .
" we ’ ve thrown away a game again . " van gaal 's criticism of his players comes as the dutch coach is increasingly under fire for his management style . on tuesday , midfielder ribery said he was disappointed to hear van gaal accuse him of a lacklustre performance in a friendly against third division side unterhaching .
van gaal has also been accused of arrogance by club boss uli hoeness . bayern still top group e with 12 points and can not be supplanted by second-place roma , who have an inferior head-to head record with the bavarians .
in wednesday 's champions league football , schalke play host to lyon and bremen are away to london side tottenham hotspur .
author : richard connor -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : catherine bolsover send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich coast to win over nuremberg bayern munich wrapped up the 12th bundesliga match day with an easy win over nuremberg .
freiburg scored an extra time goal to squeak out a victory against hoffenheim .
-lrb- 14.11.2010 -rrb- by luck or judgment , van gaal has bayern back on course forced for months to withstand talk of " crisis , " bundesliga giant bayern munich are beginning to stir .
with champions league progress now secure , the bavarians may get down to business - and rip through the league .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- bayern ease through to champions league knockout phase germany international mario gomez was given a rare start as bayern munich outplayed romanian side cfr cluj 4-0 on wednesday .
gomez contributed with a hat trick , helping his team to the champions league knockout stages .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- feedback should bayern focus all their efforts on european success this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live bundesliga predictions wakey wakey ! !
dw 's pundits - and the bundesliga - come out of hibernation with the match day 18 predictions .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 23.11.2010 bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : borriello fell , but retained his composure to start the fight back bayern munich suffered a shock defeat against champions league rivals roma , conceding two late goals .
the italians came out on top despite a two-goal lead for the bavarians through in-form mario gomez . bayern munich squandered a two-goal lead to hand victory to champions league opponents roma in tuesday 's soccer action .
louis van gaal 's men , who have already qualified for the knockout stages of the competition , went ahead through two goals from in-form striker mario gomez .
although roma started well , it was gomez who broke the deadlock on 34 minutes , when franck ribery skillfully turned the ball to gomez , who beat defender marco cassetti to put the ball into the corner of goal .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gomez has scored 14 goals in his last 10 games five minutes later , a misplaced pass from roma 's jeremy menez was picked up by thomas mueller .
the german midfielder 's pass allowed gomez to double his tally , firing in across goalkeeper julio sergio .
the goal means gomez has now scored 14 goals in his last 10 games .
with bayern cruising , it was up to roma to muster a strong comeback if they were to boost their chances of qualification .
the italian revival began after the restart , when roma coach claudio ranieri moved menez from behind the attack to wide right .
menez easily beat bayern 's anatoliy tymoshchuk and martin demichelis to cross the ball for forward marco borriello .
although boriello fell as tried to control the pass , he was still able to flick the ball into goal past keeper thomas kraft .
late goals seal win the equalizer came nine minutes from time , as john arne riise fired the ball across the box for daniele de rossi to put away .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern have a superior record in their head-to-head encounters with roma substitute francesco totti made it 3-2 from the penalty spot on 84 minutes , after borriello was brought down by goalkeeper thomas kraft .
coach louis van gaal criticized his side for throwing away a lead .
" the problem was , we lost too many balls and gave too many chances to roma , " said van gaal .
" we ’ ve thrown away a game again . " van gaal 's criticism of his players comes as the dutch coach is increasingly under fire for his management style . on tuesday , midfielder ribery said he was disappointed to hear van gaal accuse him of a lacklustre performance in a friendly against third division side unterhaching .
van gaal has also been accused of arrogance by club boss uli hoeness . bayern still top group e with 12 points and can not be supplanted by second-place roma , who have an inferior head-to head record with the bavarians .
in wednesday 's champions league football , schalke play host to lyon and bremen are away to london side tottenham hotspur .
author : richard connor -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : catherine bolsover send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich coast to win over nuremberg bayern munich wrapped up the 12th bundesliga match day with an easy win over nuremberg .
freiburg scored an extra time goal to squeak out a victory against hoffenheim .
-lrb- 14.11.2010 -rrb- by luck or judgment , van gaal has bayern back on course forced for months to withstand talk of " crisis , " bundesliga giant bayern munich are beginning to stir .
with champions league progress now secure , the bavarians may get down to business - and rip through the league .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- bayern ease through to champions league knockout phase germany international mario gomez was given a rare start as bayern munich outplayed romanian side cfr cluj 4-0 on wednesday .
gomez contributed with a hat trick , helping his team to the champions league knockout stages .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- 9797 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread -pipe- protecting biodiversity in suriname -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home europe turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia bio-coal in india biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power hydropower biodiversity -pipe- 23.11.2010 threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : leatherback turtles have existed for millions of years the earth is home to some 20 million species , and many more that scientists believe have never been identified .
they say species extinctions are on the rise , with repercussions for mankind . the leatherback turtle lives on the coast of suriname .
weighing up to 700 kilos -lrb- 1,540 pounds -rrb- and as long as 2.5 meters -lrb- 8 feet -rrb- , it 's the world 's largest sea turtle .
but sheer size is n't enough to prevent it from dying out .
its reproductive patterns are highly sensitive to rising temperatures : sands in many areas are today so scorching that eggs can not survive , and moreover , sand temperatures determine the sex ratio of turtle eggs .
if the sand in which they lay their eggs gets too hot , more female turtles are produced – which destroys the natural gender balance and endangers breeding success over the long term .
a further problem is loss of nesting and feeding habitats due to rising sea-levels .
taken together , all this means their numbers are declining dramatically and they have been added to the international union for conservation of nature -lrb- iucn -rrb- " red list " of threatened species .
according to experts , if no action is taken to protect leatherbacks , these reptiles , which have existed for over 65 million years , will disappear in our lifetime .
climate change and biodiversity bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : clownfish are losing their sense of smell the united nations declared 2010 to be the international year of biodiversity , with research showing that , via global warming , man is responsible for the greatest extinction of wildlife since the demise of the dinosaurs .
one-fifth of the world 's vertebrates face extinction , according to the latest figures released by the iucn .
in fact , the role played by global warming is a matter of keen debate .
many scientists believe that other factors contribute , such as poaching , and the fact that the consequences of climate change are intensified by pollution .
climate change is also having severe impacts on migratory species .
that is also likely to be increasingly disruptive , experts say .
" these days , you come across species in places where they 've never been before , " said wendy foden , of the species program run by the iucn in london .
" some species are migrating to colder regions , and in south america , that means further south and higher altitudes . "
marine life is equally affected but the animals have fewer migratory options .
increased co2 levels in the atmosphere are changing ocean ph levels , a process which alters many species ' habitat .
what it means for mankind helen foden cites the example of the clownfish .
“ when the water is more acidic than usual , clownfish start to lose their sense of smell , " she said .
like many reef and coastal fish , clownfish are swept off their home reefs into the open ocean as babies , and use their acute senses of smell to find their way back .
the tiny larvae of many coastal fish rely on scent cues in the water to help locate adult habitat .
iucn experts now hope to use the popularity of the clownfish to raise awareness of how climate change is impacting ecosystems .
" thanks to the movie ‘ finding nemo , ' everyone is familiar with clownfish , " said foden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the tiny noblella pygmaea mini frog was only discovered in 2009 species extinction has an immediate effect on mankind .
according to a recent survey carried out in germany , two-thirds of those questioned said that they would be personally affected by biodiversity loss , but mainly in terms of their leisure-time activities .
in fact , the repercussions will be significantly further-reaching .
the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity -lrb- teeb -rrb- study is a major international initiative set up to draw attention to the global economic benefits of biodiversity and to highlight the growing costs of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation . it puts the worldwide economic value of the pollination service provided by insect pollinators , for example , at some € 153 billion -lrb- $ 210 billion -rrb- – proof that species ' extinction is about far more than leisure activities .
however , the teeb study has been unable to give a precise figure to the cost of loss of biodiversity , simply because many species have never been identified . unknown species bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south america is believed to be home to the world 's greatest biodiversity some 1.9 million species are officially catalogued , but this is believed to be just a small percentage of the species that actually exist .
researchers estimate that about 100 species die out every year , and since their function in the ecosystem is not necessarily known , scientists are not in a position to identify the consequences of their extinction .
gudrun mernitz is co-founder of the resource center for marine organisms .
she and her team have isolated several hundred substances out of marine micro-organisms , which are now being examined as potential components in pharmaceuticals . " several might be active against types of cancer , " said mernitz .
in the past 10 years , some 6 percent of medicines developed were derived from natural substances , says rolf hoemke from the association of research-based pharmaceuticals companies .
" it might be anything , even the intestines of a bug , " he said .
the pharmaceutical potential of biodiversity should not underestimated .
researchers from conservation international take regular field trips to document biodiversity and to locate where the establishment of conservation areas would be most constructive .
the idea is that by protecting animal and plant species from pollution and poaching , they may adjust over time to climate change .
author : marion huetter -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de extinction threatens over one fifth of world 's plants the world 's plants are facing an extinction rate on a par with mammals .
one in five plant species is at threat of dying out , says a new study released ahead of the un 's biodiversity summit in japan in october .
-lrb- 29.09.2010 -rrb- russia convenes leaders ' summit to save tigers from extinction the fate of the world 's 3,500 wild tigers is the theme at a conference in russia this week .
leaders from the 13 nations with wild tigers are meeting amid claims that the animals could be extinct within a dozen years .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think should be done to preserve biodiversity ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 main page english deutsch español 中文 عربي dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv .
global 3000 13.12.2010 edition as video on demand radio listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 16.12.10 -rrb- get connected global ideas : stay up to date facebook twitter videos on youtube podcast via rss-feed podcast via itunes our planet dw 's in depth reporting on environement and development issues .
click here © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread -pipe- protecting biodiversity in suriname -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.07.2011 home europe eco-loans in serbia permafrost in russia boreal forests in russia making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia climate change in the himalayas green industry park in india flood prevention in bangladesh hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa renewable energy on the cape verde islands dry forests in zambia agricultural insurance in ghana climate champions in uganda green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america energy-efficient wine production in chile solar roofs in brazil natural paradise in costa rica renewable energy in the caribbean micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power biodiversity -pipe- 23.11.2010 threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : leatherback turtles have existed for millions of years the earth is home to some 20 million species , and many more that scientists believe have never been identified .
they say species extinctions are on the rise , with repercussions for mankind . the leatherback turtle lives on the coast of suriname .
weighing up to 700 kilos -lrb- 1,540 pounds -rrb- and as long as 2.5 meters -lrb- 8 feet -rrb- , it 's the world 's largest sea turtle .
but sheer size is n't enough to prevent it from dying out .
its reproductive patterns are highly sensitive to rising temperatures : sands in many areas are today so scorching that eggs can not survive , and moreover , sand temperatures determine the sex ratio of turtle eggs .
if the sand in which they lay their eggs gets too hot , more female turtles are produced – which destroys the natural gender balance and endangers breeding success over the long term .
a further problem is loss of nesting and feeding habitats due to rising sea-levels .
taken together , all this means their numbers are declining dramatically and they have been added to the international union for conservation of nature -lrb- iucn -rrb- " red list " of threatened species .
according to experts , if no action is taken to protect leatherbacks , these reptiles , which have existed for over 65 million years , will disappear in our lifetime .
climate change and biodiversity bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : clownfish are losing their sense of smell the united nations declared 2010 to be the international year of biodiversity , with research showing that , via global warming , man is responsible for the greatest extinction of wildlife since the demise of the dinosaurs .
one-fifth of the world 's vertebrates face extinction , according to the latest figures released by the iucn .
in fact , the role played by global warming is a matter of keen debate .
many scientists believe that other factors contribute , such as poaching , and the fact that the consequences of climate change are intensified by pollution .
climate change is also having severe impacts on migratory species .
that is also likely to be increasingly disruptive , experts say .
" these days , you come across species in places where they 've never been before , " said wendy foden , of the species program run by the iucn in london .
" some species are migrating to colder regions , and in south america , that means further south and higher altitudes . "
marine life is equally affected but the animals have fewer migratory options .
increased co2 levels in the atmosphere are changing ocean ph levels , a process which alters many species ' habitat .
what it means for mankind helen foden cites the example of the clownfish .
“ when the water is more acidic than usual , clownfish start to lose their sense of smell , " she said .
like many reef and coastal fish , clownfish are swept off their home reefs into the open ocean as babies , and use their acute senses of smell to find their way back .
the tiny larvae of many coastal fish rely on scent cues in the water to help locate adult habitat .
iucn experts now hope to use the popularity of the clownfish to raise awareness of how climate change is impacting ecosystems .
" thanks to the movie ‘ finding nemo , ' everyone is familiar with clownfish , " said foden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the tiny noblella pygmaea mini frog was only discovered in 2009 species extinction has an immediate effect on mankind .
according to a recent survey carried out in germany , two-thirds of those questioned said that they would be personally affected by biodiversity loss , but mainly in terms of their leisure-time activities .
in fact , the repercussions will be significantly further-reaching .
the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity -lrb- teeb -rrb- study is a major international initiative set up to draw attention to the global economic benefits of biodiversity and to highlight the growing costs of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation . it puts the worldwide economic value of the pollination service provided by insect pollinators , for example , at some € 153 billion -lrb- $ 210 billion -rrb- – proof that species ' extinction is about far more than leisure activities .
however , the teeb study has been unable to give a precise figure to the cost of loss of biodiversity , simply because many species have never been identified . unknown species bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south america is believed to be home to the world 's greatest biodiversity some 1.9 million species are officially catalogued , but this is believed to be just a small percentage of the species that actually exist .
researchers estimate that about 100 species die out every year , and since their function in the ecosystem is not necessarily known , scientists are not in a position to identify the consequences of their extinction .
gudrun mernitz is co-founder of the resource center for marine organisms .
she and her team have isolated several hundred substances out of marine micro-organisms , which are now being examined as potential components in pharmaceuticals . " several might be active against types of cancer , " said mernitz .
in the past 10 years , some 6 percent of medicines developed were derived from natural substances , says rolf hoemke from the association of research-based pharmaceuticals companies .
" it might be anything , even the intestines of a bug , " he said .
the pharmaceutical potential of biodiversity should not underestimated .
researchers from conservation international take regular field trips to document biodiversity and to locate where the establishment of conservation areas would be most constructive .
the idea is that by protecting animal and plant species from pollution and poaching , they may adjust over time to climate change .
author : marion huetter -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de extinction threatens over one fifth of world 's plants the world 's plants are facing an extinction rate on a par with mammals .
one in five plant species is at threat of dying out , says a new study released ahead of the un 's biodiversity summit in japan in october .
-lrb- 29.09.2010 -rrb- russia convenes leaders ' summit to save tigers from extinction the fate of the world 's 3,500 wild tigers is the theme at a conference in russia this week .
leaders from the 13 nations with wild tigers are meeting amid claims that the animals could be extinct within a dozen years .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- 9797 main page english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv .
global 3000 11.07.2011 edition as video on demand radio listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 07.07.11 -rrb- the living planet page get connected global ideas : stay up to date facebook twitter videos on youtube podcast via rss-feed podcast via itunes our planet dw 's in depth reporting on environement and development issues .
click here © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 23.11.2010 latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- is where latvians go to send telegrams while many countries around the world have given up the telegraph , it 's still in use in the baltics .
ordinary residents can send them via latvian post , while latvian railway continues to use them to post speed limits . despite the wide prevalence of e-mail and mobile phones , and the demise of the telegraph in most parts of europe , some latvians , including the state railway , still use the telegraph as a primary means of communication .
this month , latvia celebrates the 158th anniversary of the arrival of the electric telegraph in their country .
the telegraph service is operated by the national company latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the first latvian telegraph was sent on nov .
1 , 1852 karīna jankovska , manager of production development at latvia post said that around 200 telegrams continue to be sent within the baltic country every month , or almost seven per day .
in addition , there are approximately 140 telegraphic messages being sent to foreign countries and about 300 international telegrams are being received in latvia on a monthly basis .
the authorities say that the service is still important for those latvians who want to stay in touch with their friends or relatives abroad .
they mostly send telegrams to the former soviet republics like russia , belarus and ukraine .
the telegraph also allows sending and receiving of official documents , like visa declarations .
alternative to e-mail telegrams , which cost just 0.80 latvian lats -lrb- 1.15 euros -rrb- for a domestic message , can be sent from every post office across the country .
one just has to ask the postman for a telegram form and fill in the required information : the name and surname of the sender , the address of the recipient and the message .
however , latvia post admits that the small number of messages that are sent tend to be sent almost exclusively by older latvians who do not use e-mails nor mobile phones , and by those who prefer it for nostalgic reasons .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvian railways continues to use the telegraph for everyday operations " for example , one can easily send a wedding invitation , " jankovska added . " the sender simply has to write the text and pay extra seven cents for each written word .
i think that most of the people use telegrams nowadays because it is interesting . "
forget about morse code the first public electromagnetic telegraph line in the territory of latvia was opened on november 1 , 1852 .
the line connected the capital city of riga with bolderāja , a nearby residential town .
it was the longest civilian telegraph line in the northern europe at the time and the first telegram was sent in german .
but the telegraph technology has changed greatly during the years .
latvia post doesn ’ t employ any vintage telegraph equipment used in the old days in order to provide the telegram service .
all the telegrams are now being sent by computer over the internet using a special e-mail system between the post offices .
the message is printed out with a printer and then delivered to the addressee by the postman the following day .
meanwhile , the telegraphic messages are being used in business as well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the telegraph remains a bit of an anachronism in modern-day riga the latvian railway still uses teletype to communicate between the stations , freight senders and the ports .
for instance , the company utilizes the old-fashioned technology in situations when any speed limitations have to be imposed on the railway network .
" we don ’ t have yet -lsb- this -rsb- so-called e-signature , " said antra birzule , a latvian railway spokesperson .
by contrast , latvia 's northern neighbor , estonia , has had digital signatures and publicly-provided encrypted e-mail for almost a decade .
" those documents sent by teletype are documented as an official document .
if it ’ s just an e-mail it doesn ’ t work yet in latvia at such a high level because in the railway , the key issue is safety .
so , we still rely on the teletype . "
special place in latvian history many latvians are either unaware of , or have forgotten the telegraph 's key role in latvia ’ s fight for restoration of its independence back in january 1991 .
the soviet political and military forces tried to overthrow the latvian authorities by occupying important governmental institutions .
" when the telephone lines were shut down by the kgb , the so called telex central was still operating , " explained ļevs datelis , a latvian telecommunications engineer and expert on latvian telegraph history . " the soviet secret police didn ’ t pay much attention to it and the latvian politicians used it for communication .
it also enabled them to communicate with foreign countries . "
however , despite this history , karīna jankovska of latvia post added that even though the telegram service does n't lose money , the company plans on shutting down the telegram service by 2015 .
author : ģederts ģelzis , riga editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de row breaks out over latvia 's main anti-corruption body plans to shift the focus of the fight against corruption in latvia from the capital riga to the regions will just weaken the anti-corruption drive , critics say .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- economic recovery at stake in latvian elections latvia is just weeks away from its next general election .
one of the key issues is the country 's fledgling economic recovery .
but the party that is leading in the opinion polls wants to forge closer ties with russia .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- riga on a shoestring want to explore europe but you 're on a tight budget ?
pulse takes you to some of europe 's most interesting cities and proves you do n't have to spend a fortune .
in this edition , dw 's gederts gelzis shows you around riga .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years feedback have you ever sent a telegram ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 23.11.2010 us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraeus said his isaf troops have hard work ahead of them general david petraeus , the commander of nato 's isaf troops in afghanistan , has praised the role of the german military on a visit to berlin .
he also reiterated that security duties would be handed over to kabul by 2014 . us general and isaf commander in afghanistan david petraeus tried to couple optimism with realism on his state visit to berlin , reiterating that the alliance 's target was to hand over security responsibilities to afghan forces by 2014 , but also warning against a swift withdrawal from the country .
" it is of enormous importance that afghanistan not became a sanctuary for al qaeda or other extremists again , " petraeus told assembled reporters in a press conference with german defense minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg .
" the goal is to have afghan forces in the lead in security operations by the end of 2014 .
all our efforts will be aimed at helping afghanistan to develop the capacities to take on this mission throughout the country by that time . "
defense minister guttenberg was also cautious in his assessment of progress in afghanistan , as the isaf troops stationed there struggle against a resilient taliban insurgency .
" we 'll need to breathe deeply , " guttenberg said .
" i think the word ' patience ' will accompany us in these matters for some time . "
karzai criticized bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guttenberg had not met petraeus since the general took up the post both petraeus and guttenberg sought to address recent criticisms of new isaf tactics from afghan president hamid karzai .
karzai specifically pointed to the increasing numbers of night raids by troopers , calling their actions inappropriate and not conducive to reconciliation between western soldiers and afghan civilians .
" -lrb- afghan president karzai -rrb- has long expressed concerns about night raids , if they do n't get the individuals they are after , " petraeus said .
" but i was able to show him the statistics that indicate the very high rate of success of those operations . "
relations between karzai 's government in kabul and the west - not least the us - have become somewhat rocky of late , amid a string of critical comments from all sides .
guttenberg suggested that some of the afghan president 's comments that have caused tension among nato members might never have been intended for international consumption .
" i think it does n't do any political harm to tell president hamid karzai from time to time that statements made with the local population in mind may also have a considerable impact abroad , " the german defense minister said .
" this goes particularly for the political debate in those countries which have allied troops in afghanistan .
we talked about that during -lrb- last weekend 's -rrb- nato summit in lisbon , and i think there 's agreement that more caution and sensitivity will be needed in the future , " he added .
bundeswehr praised bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraues said german troops play a ' key role ' for isaf general petraeus , who is in charge of the isaf forces stationed in afghanistan , was on his first trip to meet with defense minister guttenberg since taking on the job in july .
he also thanked the german military , the bundeswehr , for its contribution in the country .
he praised chancellor merkel 's government 's decision to boost german troop levels in afghanistan to 5,000 , saying the bundeswehr was already performing a " central role " in the country , and that the troop increase would further improve germany 's image .
germany is currently the third largest contributor to the isaf mission in terms of troop numbers , behind only the us and the uk .
a total of roughly 130,000 isaf soldiers are serving in afghanistan .
author : hardy graupner -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : is nato withdrawal from afghanistan by 2014 realistic ?
nato confirmed at its summit in lisbon that it wanted to pull out of afghanistan by the end of 2014 , leaving the afghan security forces in control .
but deutsche welle 's ratbil shamel is skeptical about this aim .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nato to withdraw from afghanistan by 2014 nato nations have approved a plan to start pulling out front-line troops in afghanistan early in 2011 .
however , forces will remain in the most dangerous areas until 2014 , and likely stay in a supporting role beyond then .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- expert pleads for delinking of civilian , military operations in afghanistan europeans should argue for decoupling civilian from military operations in afghanistan at the upcoming nato summit , the head of the eu institute of security studies tells deutsche welle .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- feedback is the afghan withdrawal target of 2014 realistic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 23.11.2010 us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraeus said his isaf troops have hard work ahead of them general david petraeus , the commander of nato 's isaf troops in afghanistan , has praised the role of the german military on a visit to berlin .
he also reiterated that security duties would be handed over to kabul by 2014 . us general and isaf commander in afghanistan david petraeus tried to couple optimism with realism on his state visit to berlin , reiterating that the alliance 's target was to hand over security responsibilities to afghan forces by 2014 , but also warning against a swift withdrawal from the country .
" it is of enormous importance that afghanistan not became a sanctuary for al qaeda or other extremists again , " petraeus told assembled reporters in a press conference with german defense minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg .
" the goal is to have afghan forces in the lead in security operations by the end of 2014 .
all our efforts will be aimed at helping afghanistan to develop the capacities to take on this mission throughout the country by that time . "
defense minister guttenberg was also cautious in his assessment of progress in afghanistan , as the isaf troops stationed there struggle against a resilient taliban insurgency .
" we 'll need to breathe deeply , " guttenberg said .
" i think the word ' patience ' will accompany us in these matters for some time . "
karzai criticized bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guttenberg had not met petraeus since the general took up the post both petraeus and guttenberg sought to address recent criticisms of new isaf tactics from afghan president hamid karzai .
karzai specifically pointed to the increasing numbers of night raids by troopers , calling their actions inappropriate and not conducive to reconciliation between western soldiers and afghan civilians .
" -lrb- afghan president karzai -rrb- has long expressed concerns about night raids , if they do n't get the individuals they are after , " petraeus said .
" but i was able to show him the statistics that indicate the very high rate of success of those operations . "
relations between karzai 's government in kabul and the west - not least the us - have become somewhat rocky of late , amid a string of critical comments from all sides .
guttenberg suggested that some of the afghan president 's comments that have caused tension among nato members might never have been intended for international consumption .
" i think it does n't do any political harm to tell president hamid karzai from time to time that statements made with the local population in mind may also have a considerable impact abroad , " the german defense minister said .
" this goes particularly for the political debate in those countries which have allied troops in afghanistan .
we talked about that during -lrb- last weekend 's -rrb- nato summit in lisbon , and i think there 's agreement that more caution and sensitivity will be needed in the future , " he added .
bundeswehr praised bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraues said german troops play a ' key role ' for isaf general petraeus , who is in charge of the isaf forces stationed in afghanistan , was on his first trip to meet with defense minister guttenberg since taking on the job in july .
he also thanked the german military , the bundeswehr , for its contribution in the country .
he praised chancellor merkel 's government 's decision to boost german troop levels in afghanistan to 5,000 , saying the bundeswehr was already performing a " central role " in the country , and that the troop increase would further improve germany 's image .
germany is currently the third largest contributor to the isaf mission in terms of troop numbers , behind only the us and the uk .
a total of roughly 130,000 isaf soldiers are serving in afghanistan .
author : hardy graupner -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : is nato withdrawal from afghanistan by 2014 realistic ?
nato confirmed at its summit in lisbon that it wanted to pull out of afghanistan by the end of 2014 , leaving the afghan security forces in control .
but deutsche welle 's ratbil shamel is skeptical about this aim .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nato to withdraw from afghanistan by 2014 nato nations have approved a plan to start pulling out front-line troops in afghanistan early in 2011 .
however , forces will remain in the most dangerous areas until 2014 , and likely stay in a supporting role beyond then .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- expert pleads for delinking of civilian , military operations in afghanistan europeans should argue for decoupling civilian from military operations in afghanistan at the upcoming nato summit , the head of the eu institute of security studies tells deutsche welle .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany - das wirtschaftsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 23.11.2010 ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cowen has come under pressure from all sides irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf . ireland 's prime minister brian cowen pulled the country out of the frying pan of debt on sunday , only to find himself plunged into the fire of a snap election on monday .
after securing a financial rescue believed to be worth up to 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- in loans from the european union and the international monetary fund , the fianna fail party leader was forced to promise early elections as his political friends and enemies both turned on him .
" it is my intention at the conclusion of the budgetary process , with the enactment of the necessary legislation in the new year , to then seek the dissolution of parliament , " prime minister brian cowen told reporters in a hastily-called press conference .
cowen was effectively yielding to his government 's junior coalition partners , the greens , who called for elections in january , although he did n't promise that they would be held in that month .
the two main opposition parties , labour and fine gael , had demanded an immediate dissolution of parliament instead .
" what is needed now is an immediate general election so that a new government , with a clear parliamentary majority , can prepare the four-year economic plan , complete negotiations with the eu and imf and frame a budget for 2011 , " fine gael leader enda kenny wrote in an e-mailed statement .
first things first bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland requested help with its runaway debts on sunday cowen 's government is set to publish a four-year economic plan on wednesday and a new , cost-cutting budget on december 7 - a process that is crucial to secure loan payments from the eu and imf .
cowen said these processes would have to be completed before the dissolution of parliament , so as to protect ireland from financial collapse .
the junior coalition partners , the greens , pledged to support the government only until january ; party leader john gormley called on cowen to name a date for elections in the new year , saying the irish people needed " political certainty " and had been " misled and betrayed " by the prime minister 's cabinet .
for about a week , ireland had insisted that it could recover its economy without outside help , but caved in on sunday and requested a bailout from the eu and imf , following in the footsteps of greece earlier this year .
the country faces a budget deficit of 32 percent of gross domestic product , a figure which has ballooned because of the government bailout of its largest moneylender , anglo-irish bank .
even without this extra expense , the country 's 2010 shortfall would have comfortably exceeded the eu 's prescribed limit of 3 percent of gdp .
tough sell for european leaders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel may struggle to convince her party and her people that germany should foot part of the irish bill german chancellor angela merkel said on monday that the irish rescue was " positive overall , " because under the terms of the new deal , dublin would be forced to obey terms set by the eu and imf .
merkel said the rescue package was necessary to stabilize the european single currency , the euro .
a similar loan package for greece earlier this year , the first of its kind , was particularly unpopular in germany , not least among merkel 's conservative christian democratic union .
britain 's cash-strapped government , which is implementing its own series of tough austerity measures , also came under fire for contributing to the irish rescue , but the government defended the action .
" ireland is a friend in need , and we are here to help , " the conservative chancellor of the exchequer , george osborne said .
also on monday , the credit ratings agency moody 's said it would probably downgrade ireland 's sovereign debt by several notches in light of the eu-imf rescue .
author : mark hallam -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- eu agrees bailout for ireland eu finance ministers have agreed on a bailout fund for ireland to tackle the country 's huge budget deficit and save its banking sector .
it 's the second eu bailout package this year .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- germany denies pressuring ireland over business tax a german government spokesman said ireland should be allowed to determine its own corporation tax rate , despite recent pressure from a senior finance expert in chancellor angela merkel 's party .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic what is the real price of aid for ireland 's government ? -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- the people of ireland face tough times -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- how the rescue package works -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says aids epidemic is easing off slightly , but the suffering persists -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 23.11.2010 un says aids epidemic is easing off slightly , but the suffering persists großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : united nations statistics show that deaths from aids and the rates of new hiv infections are declining .
but for people living with hiv , the stigma , discrimination and the adverse impact of bad legislation continues . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic our correspondent imogen foulkes reports from geneva .
9797 dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink news and perspectives from the heart of europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
terror suspects arrested in belgium , netherlands and germany -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 23.11.2010 terror suspects arrested in belgium , netherlands and germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dozens were arrested police in belgium , the netherlands and germany have arrested at least 10 islamists suspected of plotting an attack in belgium .
another 15 were arrested for allegedly recruiting insurgents for iraq and afghanistan . police in belgium and neighboring countries carried out two separate anti-terror raids on tuesday , arresting at least 25 people .
federal prosecutors in belgium first announced the arrests of at least 10 islamists suspected of plotting an attack on an unknown target in belgium .
" ten belgian , dutch , moroccan and russian nationals have been arrested , " a spokesman for the belgian prosecutor 's office said on tuesday .
the russian nationals were of chechen origin , he said .
one of those russians has been detained in the western german city of aachen , close to the dutch border .
the others were arrested in belgium 's second city antwerp and in the dutch capital amsterdam .
extremist websites under scrutiny the group used the extremist website ansar al mujahideen , according to the prosecutors .
the target has not been determined yet .
" there 's also a website called sharia for belgium , which is dedicated to people who have motive to launch some kind of attack on belgium specifically , " deutsche welle 's brussels correspondent vanessa mock said . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : security measures have been stepped up across germany " but at the moment we do n't know exactly how those websites feed into those groups , " she added .
the arrests followed a months-long investigation initiated by the belgian authorities in late 2009 in cooperation with its european neighbors and the eu 's judicial cooperation unit eurojust .
the target of the attack is not known , but " they believe it might have been on antwerp , seeing as the bulk of the arrests were made there .
it has n't been confirmed , but that 's where the houses were raided , " mock said .
at least 15 arrested in later raids later on tuesday evening , belgian prosecutors announced at least 15 further arrests , made as part of an unrelated set of property searches in brussels .
this second probe was investigating an iraq and afghanistan war recruitment drive , and a spokeswoman for the prosecutor 's office said that " about 15 people " were detained .
belgian authorities said the raids were the culmination of a three year investigation into a belgian islamic center , conducted with the cooperation of foreign police services .
some of the people arrested are suspected members of a group that has been trying to recruit people to go and fight for the afghan and iraqi insurgencies .
no connection to german terror alert but germany 's interior ministry said on tuesday that the belgian arrests had nothing to do with the current situation in germany , where security measures have been stepped up because of intelligence suggesting a terror attack may be on the cards .
even the first set of arrests , one of which was made in germany , was not thought to be connected to the terror warnings from berlin .
" these are measures taken by the belgian authorities , based on evidence suggesting that young belgians are being recruited for the islamist separatist fight in chechnya , " stefan paris , spokesman for the german interior ministry said on tuesday .
the dutch authorities also said that tuesday 's arrests were not connected to the situation in germany .
author : nicole goebel , mark hallam -lrb- dpa , afp , reuters -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warned that some dangers were being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- german interior ministers acknowledge terror threat , call for calm germany 's interior ministers have called on citizens to continue living their lives as before , in the face of recent terror threats .
on the same day , in namibia , a suspected bomb was found on a plane headed for munich .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- germany steps up security on news of planned terror attack germany announces stepped up security in light of information that terrorists may be planning an attack in the country for late november .
security is to be increased at all airports and train stations .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic at least ten suspects arrested in belgian terror plot .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
labor bottleneck squeezes german solar sector -pipe- environment & development -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 23.11.2010 labor bottleneck squeezes german solar sector großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in the solar industry , qualified employees are a scarce commodity jobs in renewable energies in germany have quadrupled since 2006 , but a stubborn lack of qualified employees remains .
immigration policy and a wariness of outsiders could hobble the industry before it hits full stride . as in many countries , renewable energy sources are playing an increasingly important role in germany .
thanks to a generous system of feed-in tariffs , they now account for 16.3 percent of the country 's electricity , according to the renewable energies agency .
indeed , germany has ambitions for the sector that go beyond its own borders .
the export-oriented economy is pinning its hopes on becoming a center of knowledge and innovation that will sell the know-how for clean technologies to the rest of the world .
and why not ?
demand for employees in the renewables sector is growing rapidly and consistently .
in the first quarter of 2010 , the monitoring agency wissenschaftsladen bonn counted 2,289 job openings – a fourfold increase on the 528 jobs listed in the same quarter of 2006 .
so far so good .
but there 's a daunting hurdle confronting germany 's clean economy dreams right now .
demand for skilled workers is outstripping supply .
what 's more , difficult immigration policies , a backlash against multiculturalism and concerns about industrial espionage are stifling what could be a potential solution to the problem – skilled foreign labor .
training not enough bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hans joachim moller says employees are needed at all levels of the industry vast , interlinked networks of manufacturing facilities and research institutions have sprung up around the solar industry of the eastern german state of saxony . some 14 percent of positions for qualified employees were left unfilled here during the first half of 2009 , according to a survey released in april by the institute for employment research .
at solarworld , in the city of freiberg , a highly advanced assembly line of robots – each performing a specialized function – manufactures solar cells .
the company is an international market leader that with facilities stretching around the world from the united states to asia .
speaking at solarworld 's freiberg facility , hans-joachim moller , a professor of experimental physics at the nearby technical university bergakadamie , said labor shortages in germany range from researchers and lab assistants through to technicians .
he wants to see more training programs , with narrower fields of focus tailored to the industry , but he concedes that this will only come at a cost to other sectors of the economy .
" of course that means those people will then be missing elsewhere ...
that is a problem which in my opinion can only be solved by getting people - scientists - from foreign countries .
otherwise it ca n't function , " he told deutsche welle .
just 50 kilometers away , the roth and rau company works on a different , but related process .
specializing in the hardware and technology needed to manufacture solar cells , roth and rau has some 800 employees and offers complete factory systems to their customers .
bernd rau , one of the company 's founders , says his company has explored partnerships with universities in saxony , but the search for skilled workers is becoming increasingly acute . " it is more and more difficult , especially for the it people , and also in engineering and mechanical engineering , " he told deutsche welle .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bernd rau says finding employees for his company has become more difficult language barrier there is a push to attract foreign workers , but it may not be enough .
of the 300 educational programs specialized in renewable energy nationwide , 25 are now taught in english .
that 's up from just seven in 2007 , according to wissenschaftsladen bonn .
and some areas of germany may have to try especially hard to be alluring to outsiders .
claudia kemfert , an energy market specialist at the german institute of economic research in berlin , says the german language is a particularly high hurdle when it comes to attracting foreign workers .
on the international market , it 's simply not very appealing .
to compensate , companies located in eastern germany in particular need to offer good salaries and incentives .
" germany has to do a lot in order to be attractive , both in salary terms and attractive jobs . "
yet kemfert also thinks that the renewables sector has a lot of potential to be attractive to foreigners " because these are jobs of the future and the market will increase drastically all over the world . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : feed in tariffs have made installing solar cells an attractive proposition wary of outsiders the trouble is the industry itself can be wary of outsiders , fearing industrial espionage .
when deutsche welle visited solarworld , photography was completely forbidden .
at and roth and rau it was restricted .
both companies have worldwide operations and lucrative , specialized knowledge to keep secret .
in fact , german companies in general fear losing the competitive edge that their knowledge affords them to foreign competitors .
a survey of security experts done by the german association for security in industry and commerce shows that 74 percent say their companies have knowledge which should be protected .
the survey covered 244 experts and indicates industrial espionage affects companies with operations outside of germany .
just one state to the west of saxony , heinrich metzner of the university of jena in thuringia says some of the international students who have studied photovoltaics at his institute of solid state physics have had to leave germany after completing their studies .
once their student visas expired , they were left with little choice but to return to their home countries and apply their knowledge there instead .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : competition from asia is a real concern for german companies built-in growth cap metzner does n't sympathize much with industry 's fears of spies .
he argues that excessive secrecy has little value in any globalized industry .
knowledge is bound to leak , even by legal means , he says .
" it is inevitable in the globalized economic space when you sell machines and facilities , because manufacturers have to guarantee that their products function properly , " he told deutsche welle .
" and so industry ca n't avoid that know-how will be passed on .
it appears that even as the fields of photovoltaic , and renewable energy in general , grow in leaps and bounds , they may increasingly find themselves limited in their options and struggling to operate within germany as qualified employees become more difficult to find .
immigration policies , protectionist attitudes and an unwillingness to accept foreign workers may well be hampering their efforts , and at the rate the industry is growing , it seems that a limited workforce will stunt the industry 's potential sooner rather than later .
author : gerhard schneibel editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iea predicts oil prices will more than double by 2035 the international energy agency has called for oil subsidies to be eradicated as it predicts that oil demand and prices will rise in the next 25 years , despite a push towards green energy .
-lrb- 09.11.2010 -rrb- german parliament passes law to extend use of nuclear power despite public protests and angry diatribes from the opposition , the german government on thursday took the first major hurdle in a parliamentary vote toward extending the lifespans of nuclear power plants .
-lrb- 28.10.2010 -rrb- smart grids play key role in modern energy infrastructure how do you ensure a steady supply of electricity from fickle renewable sources such as solar , wind and biomass ?
' smart grids ' that manage and distribute flows of electricity could be the answer .
-lrb- 06.09.2010 -rrb- german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- germany to cut subsidies for solar energy a law proposed by chancellor angela merkel 's government would greatly reduce subsidies for solar energy production , and in some cases eliminate them all together .
-lrb- 23.02.2010 -rrb- 9797 environment listen to our weekly show about the environment or check out reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 07.07.11 -rrb- the living planet page media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
development listen to this week 's show for development reports from around the globe or check out back editions .
world in progress -lrb- 06.07.11 -rrb- world in progress page micro-blog follow the feed get dw 's latest environment stories , and more , right away .
nuclear power readers wrote in to share what nuclear power policy is like in the countries where they live .
readers discuss nuclear policy at home map with international reader response © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german jewish leader receives major honor -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 23.11.2010 german jewish leader receives major honor großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : knobloch survived the holocaust as a child in germany the outgoing president of germany 's central council of jews in germany , charlotte knobloch , has been awarded the large federal cross of merit with star , one of the highest honors available in germany . german president christian wulff gave one of the highest orders of merit available to the country 's jewish leader on tuesday , praising charlotte knobloch and her term of over four years at the head of the central council of jews in germany .
" we are honoring a woman of whom our entire country can be proud , and who is therefore receiving one of this country 's particularly high honors - along with our gratitude and admiration , " the german president said at the ceremony in berlin .
knobloch , 78 , survived the nazi era as a child , hiding with a sympathetic german family .
she has held several leading positions in the german jewish community since the 1980s , and took over from paul spiegel as the president of the central council for jews in 2006 .
" it 's thanks to people like charlotte knobloch , that there is such a thing as reconciliation ; that we were able to set off on a path towards a new collective life , a new normality .
we will continue along that path . "
knobloch has been awarded the large federal cross of merit with star , one of the highest orders available to civilians in germany .
" last eyewitness to leave " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wulff said all of germany could be proud of knobloch 's achievements knobloch will not stand for reelection when the central council for jews votes on a new president on november , 28 ; former vice president dieter graumann is considered her likely replacement .
graumann , born in israel in 1950 , would be the first post-war german jewish leader not to have lived through the holocaust .
" with the departure of charlotte knobloch , the last eyewitness will be leaving the presidential office at the central council for jews .
that is certainly a break with history in german jewish culture , " president wulff said in his speech honoring knobloch .
" but this change will not mean that anything is forgotten .
we all well know the obligations we have , not just to the victims of the past , but also to our future offspring . "
knobloch also discussed this prospect in a recent interview with the mannheimer morgen newspaper , but agreed that there was no danger of the holocaust being forgotten in germany .
" the next generation has still grown up with the history of the holocaust , even if we -lrb- german society -rrb- did n't really talk about it for decades , " knobloch said .
" nowadays , jews are accepted in the mainstream of german society , something that for decades was not the case . "
one of the issues on which knobloch concentrated during her term in office was the integration of jewish immigrants from the former soviet union , a fast-growing group with increasing influence in germany 's jewish community .
wulff told knobloch in the ceremony that the large federal cross of merit with star symbolized germany 's enduring gratitude for - and commitment to - her life 's work .
author : mark hallam -lrb- apn , dpa -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de being honored by the fatherland : germany 's federal cross of merit where the uk has its knighthood , and france its legion of honour , germany rewards its loyal citizens with the federal cross of merit .
its most famous recent recipient was the national soccer team coach joachim loew .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- central council for jews in germany celebrates 60 successful years the central council for jews in germany was founded on july 19 , 1950 .
since then it has built up a jewish community of over 100,000 in germany and has been a leading moral voice when it comes to the country 's nazi past .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- german jews ordain first female rabbi since world war ii for the first time since 1935 , germany 's jewish community has ordained a female rabbi .
alina treiger , 31 , will have the same rights and responsibilities as her male colleagues .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live made in germany - the business magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
north korea attacks south korean island -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.08.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de asia -pipe- 23.11.2010 north korea attacks south korean island großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the shelling set buildings on fire and lasted about an hour north korea has shelled the south korean border island of yeonpyeong , killing two marines and injuring several others , prompting international condemnation .
the north says the south fired on it first . south korean officials and media reports said on tuesday that north korean air force jets fired dozens of shells at the border island , setting buildings ablaze and injuring at least a dozen other people . south korean troops based on the island fired back , and the military was put on top alert , news agencies in the south reported . north korea , meanwhile , said the south had fired first ; seoul acknowledged it was conducting military operations close to the disputed maritime border between the two territories , but said it had been firing west , not north . a senior south korean defense ministry official , lee hong-ki , called the shelling " an intentional attack " and a " clear violation of the armistice " between the two countries . south korean president lee myung-bak said in response that his government was working to prevent the exchange of fire between the north and south .
however , he added that his country would retaliate should the north attack again . a defense ministry spokesman said that a class-a military alert for battle situations had been imposed immediately . major powers condemn the attack un secretary-general ban ki-moon described the attack as " one of the gravest incidents since the end of the korean war " and called for restraint by both sides . in the united states , the white house issued a statement " strongly condemning " the artillery attack and called on north korea " to halt its belligerent action . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german minister said the incident endangered peace german foreign minister guido westerwelle said he was " very worried about this newest development " and appealed for " moderation among the participants . " " this renewed provocation endangers peace in the region , " westerwelle said . japan , china and russia also voiced deep concern over the incident . japanese prime minister naoto kan said he had ordered his cabinet ministers to prepare for any eventuality . russia warned against an escalation of tensions and called the attack " unacceptable . "
in moscow , foreign minister sergei lavrov urged both sides to show restraint to prevent a wider conflict . " there is a colossal danger , which must be avoided , " lavrov warned , adding that " those who started this bear a huge responsibility . " bildunterschrift : yeonpyeong is in a sensitive border area of the yellow sea south korea 's ytn television said air force jets were scrambled , after what appeared to be one of the most serious border incidents since the 1950-53 war .
the two koreas are still technically at war , as that conflict ended only in a truce . local islanders were evacuated to safe areas , and the military and police were checking the number of casualties , ytn reported .
residents were also said to be fleeing the island by fishing boat . unconfirmed eyewitness reports said that fires caused by the shelling were now burning out of control and spreading . south korea 's unification ministry reportedly told ytn that it was considering evacuating its citizens in north korea , who work at the kaesong industrial park and mount kumgang resort . yeonpyeong island lies about three kilometers -lrb- 1.8 miles -rrb- south of the sea border and 120 kilometers west of seoul . the yellow sea border was the scene of deadly naval clashes in 1999 and 2002 , and the north 's alleged involvement in the sinking of a south korean ship there last november damaged already tense ties between the two neighbors . author : gabriel borrud , gregg benzow -lrb- ap , dpa , afp , reuters -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de north korea reportedly fires artillery barrage south korean military officials have said that the north fired 100 shells into waters near the disputed inter-korean sea border .
the incident comes after a south korea accused the north of detaining a fishing boat .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- south korean-us simulation attack drills anger pyongyang north korea has once again criticized joint military exercises conducted by the us and south korea .
the drills come as tension on the korean peninsula is high and speculation about the leadership in pyongyang is rife .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- us announces fresh sanctions against n. korea the us has announced new sanctions against north korea .
the measures are to target pyongyang 's weapons ' proliferation and the import of luxury goods .
-lrb- 21.07.2010 -rrb- north korea proliferation report raises international , regional stakes a leaked un document revealed to reporters in new york recently accuses north korea of defying existing sanctions on arms control and nuclear proliferation by exporting technology to iran , syria and burma .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic north korea shells south korea -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
south asia regional cooperation is making little progress in the strategically important region .
listen to the report in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a berlin designer prompts thought about waste by turning trash , like used teabags , into treasures .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes climate change check out deutsche welle 's multimedia coverage of people and projects combating climate change .
the global ideas page learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 23.11.2010 parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : social democrats put the emphasis on unity across the eu , the greens say ireland is a symbol of failed market liberalism and the liberals insist the goal of eurozone countries should be converging economic policies . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic listen to the report from christoph hasselbach in brussels .
9797 dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown - kick off !
countdown spezial we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greece on fiscal track , but must make deeper cuts , lenders say -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de greece -pipe- 23.11.2010 greece on fiscal track , but must make deeper cuts , lenders say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in deep water , greece gets new financial lifeline greece has gained approval for the next installment from an eu and imf financial rescue package , but lenders have demanded even tougher austerity measures . after doubts were voiced in the last two weeks that greece may not be eligible for another piece of the financial rescue pie , athens moved to pledge new efforts to meet the terms of a 110-billion euro -lrb- $ 151 million -rrb- bailout .
international lenders on tuesday said they would help , but prescribed an even stricter regimen for greece to regain financial stability .
the international monetary fund and the european union both stressed that greece would have to cut waste from its health care system and state-owned companies and take tougher action on tax evasion to merit another payout from the rescue fund .
greece ‘ largely on track ' eu and imf auditors , who had been to greece to assess the country 's fiscal progress , said the program was at a crossroads .
the auditors said that greece was " largely on track " with reforms and approved the release in december of nine billion euros in rescue funds .
the approval of the third tranche of the bailout money had been delayed by a day because negotiations on deeper cuts were continuing .
a fourth and bigger slice of aid , totaling 15 billion euros , is due in march , but would depend on progress made with the latest requested measures to combat greece 's massive budget deficit and national debt .
the auditors , however , also did not rule out extending the repayment timetable , or providing an additional loan to greece .
author : gregg benzow -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- greece pledges bigger cuts to make eu targets after admitting it will miss this year 's targets , greece has pledged to hike sales tax , freeze pensions and cut government waste in order to shrink its deficit in 2011 .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio ethics a frenchwoman wrote to the president on her deathbed , pleading for her son 's right to die .
listen to the audio the kremlin russia 's defense minister comes under fire from the top over gaps in the country 's armaments .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
death sentence puts pakistan 's blasphemy law in the spotlight -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.08.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 23.11.2010 death sentence puts pakistan 's blasphemy law in the spotlight großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : asia bibi 's family members are hoping for a presidential pardon pakistan 's opinion makers are engaged in a heated debate about the country 's blasphemy law after a 45-year-old christian woman was sentenced to death . pakistan 's blasphemy law has once again become a topic of heated discussion after the recent handing down of the death sentence to asia bibi .
the 45-year-old christian woman was arrested in june last year after her neighbors complained that she had made derogatory remarks about prophet mohammed .
blasphemy and lynch justice when it comes to blasphemy in the islamic republic of pakistan , the law is clear - it is a crime punishable by death to speak ill of islam and prophet mohammed .
although hundreds have been convicted of blasphemy , nobody in pakistan has ever been executed for the offence .
most convictions are retracted after the accused makes an appeal .
however , angry mobs have killed people accused of blasphemy .
in july this year , two christian brothers were gunned down in faisalabad after being accused of writing a sacrilegious letter against the prophet .
fareed ahmad pracha from the muslim movement jamaat i islami is an ardent defender of the blasphemy law .
" we have false murder cases in our country , false witnesses and it is possible that a case may be wrong , " he said . "
" we just want to say that the law should be enforced properly , there should not be any change made into the blasphemy law , we will not tolerate or accept this .
if you make way even for a single change in the law , then there will be a number of changes , whereas there has never been a case where anyone has been punished . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : there have been demonstrations for asia bibi all over the world , including in pakistan call for repeal of the law asia bibi ’ s sentencing to death has triggered an outcry among human rights groups and the international community .
some pakistani politicians have also called on the president to pardon asia bibi .
bibi herself has said that she was involved in a dispute after some women laborers she was in the fields with said they would not drink water from the same bowl because she was not a muslim .
she says they slapped her and pulled her hair .
they apparently later went to the police and accused her of making derogatory remarks about prophet mohammed .
sisal chaudhary , a local christian leader in pakistan , is angry about discrimination against the christian minority in pakistan .
" many innocent people have been killed , " he pointed out .
" people who did not even have a case registered against them .
how can you stop this ?
there is only one solution to this and that is for this law to be completely repealed .
many people have suffered , many settlements have been razed down because of this law , many people have spent 10 or 12 years in prison .
it is wrong to say that no one has been really killed because of this law .
now they want to start hanging people but they have been killing people for a long time . "
shahbaz bhatti , pakistan 's minister for minority affairs , has now been commissioned by president asif ali zardari to look into the case .
a christian himself , he has said it was a personal dispute and asia bibi did not commit blasphemy .
he is due to submit the findings of his report on wednesday .
author : manasi golapakrishnan editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- irish blasphemy law triggers protests blasphemy is now a crime in ireland punishable by a fine .
atheists and the osce have called on dublin to repeal the law as quickly as possible , but some countries , such as pakistan , think it is worth copying .
-lrb- 14.01.2010 -rrb- german-iranian author receives culture prize after religious row after a lot of controversy , the hessian culture prize 2009 has been presented .
one of the winners , navid kermani , received an official apology for being temporarily denied the award .
-lrb- 27.11.2009 -rrb- 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
nuclear agreement india and south korea sign a deal on nuclear cooperation to fuel india 's growth .
food aid despite a low point in inter-korean relations , south korea renews food aid to north korea .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greece on fiscal track , but must make deeper cuts , lenders say -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de greece -pipe- 23.11.2010 greece on fiscal track , but must make deeper cuts , lenders say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in deep water , greece gets new financial lifeline greece has gained approval for the next installment from an eu and imf financial rescue package , but lenders have demanded even tougher austerity measures . after doubts were voiced in the last two weeks that greece may not be eligible for another piece of the financial rescue pie , athens moved to pledge new efforts to meet the terms of a 110-billion euro -lrb- $ 151 million -rrb- bailout .
international lenders on tuesday said they would help , but prescribed an even stricter regimen for greece to regain financial stability .
the international monetary fund and the european union both stressed that greece would have to cut waste from its health care system and state-owned companies and take tougher action on tax evasion to merit another payout from the rescue fund .
greece ‘ largely on track ' eu and imf auditors , who had been to greece to assess the country 's fiscal progress , said the program was at a crossroads .
the auditors said that greece was " largely on track " with reforms and approved the release in december of nine billion euros in rescue funds .
the approval of the third tranche of the bailout money had been delayed by a day because negotiations on deeper cuts were continuing .
a fourth and bigger slice of aid , totaling 15 billion euros , is due in march , but would depend on progress made with the latest requested measures to combat greece 's massive budget deficit and national debt .
the auditors , however , also did not rule out extending the repayment timetable , or providing an additional loan to greece .
author : gregg benzow -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- greece pledges bigger cuts to make eu targets after admitting it will miss this year 's targets , greece has pledged to hike sales tax , freeze pensions and cut government waste in order to shrink its deficit in 2011 .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think greece will meet its obligations ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live mission europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
death sentence puts pakistan 's blasphemy law in the spotlight -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 23.11.2010 death sentence puts pakistan 's blasphemy law in the spotlight großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : asia bibi 's family members are hoping for a presidential pardon pakistan 's opinion makers are engaged in a heated debate about the country 's blasphemy law after a 45-year-old christian woman was sentenced to death . pakistan 's blasphemy law has once again become a topic of heated discussion after the recent handing down of the death sentence to asia bibi .
the 45-year-old christian woman was arrested in june last year after her neighbors complained that she had made derogatory remarks about prophet mohammed .
blasphemy and lynch justice when it comes to blasphemy in the islamic republic of pakistan , the law is clear - it is a crime punishable by death to speak ill of islam and prophet mohammed .
although hundreds have been convicted of blasphemy , nobody in pakistan has ever been executed for the offence .
most convictions are retracted after the accused makes an appeal .
however , angry mobs have killed people accused of blasphemy .
in july this year , two christian brothers were gunned down in faisalabad after being accused of writing a sacrilegious letter against the prophet .
fareed ahmad pracha from the muslim movement jamaat i islami is an ardent defender of the blasphemy law .
" we have false murder cases in our country , false witnesses and it is possible that a case may be wrong , " he said . "
" we just want to say that the law should be enforced properly , there should not be any change made into the blasphemy law , we will not tolerate or accept this .
if you make way even for a single change in the law , then there will be a number of changes , whereas there has never been a case where anyone has been punished . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : there have been demonstrations for asia bibi all over the world , including in pakistan call for repeal of the law asia bibi ’ s sentencing to death has triggered an outcry among human rights groups and the international community .
some pakistani politicians have also called on the president to pardon asia bibi .
bibi herself has said that she was involved in a dispute after some women laborers she was in the fields with said they would not drink water from the same bowl because she was not a muslim .
she says they slapped her and pulled her hair .
they apparently later went to the police and accused her of making derogatory remarks about prophet mohammed .
sisal chaudhary , a local christian leader in pakistan , is angry about discrimination against the christian minority in pakistan .
" many innocent people have been killed , " he pointed out .
" people who did not even have a case registered against them .
how can you stop this ?
there is only one solution to this and that is for this law to be completely repealed .
many people have suffered , many settlements have been razed down because of this law , many people have spent 10 or 12 years in prison .
it is wrong to say that no one has been really killed because of this law .
now they want to start hanging people but they have been killing people for a long time . "
shahbaz bhatti , pakistan 's minister for minority affairs , has now been commissioned by president asif ali zardari to look into the case .
a christian himself , he has said it was a personal dispute and asia bibi did not commit blasphemy .
he is due to submit the findings of his report on wednesday .
author : manasi golapakrishnan editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- irish blasphemy law triggers protests blasphemy is now a crime in ireland punishable by a fine .
atheists and the osce have called on dublin to repeal the law as quickly as possible , but some countries , such as pakistan , think it is worth copying .
-lrb- 14.01.2010 -rrb- german-iranian author receives culture prize after religious row after a lot of controversy , the hessian culture prize 2009 has been presented .
one of the winners , navid kermani , received an official apology for being temporarily denied the award .
-lrb- 27.11.2009 -rrb- 05 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china party success china 's success depends on the communist party , but corruption might lead to catastrophe : hu foreign aid a helping hand the european commission has decided to help north korea tackle famine .
art ming vases chinese art collectors are traveling to europe to buy ancient works from their own country .
threatened communities preserving tribal communities and their habitats can help sustain the environment .
dr. james albert of the society for threatened peoples speaks about the dangers to tribals in india dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
terror suspects arrested in belgium , netherlands and germany -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 23.11.2010 terror suspects arrested in belgium , netherlands and germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dozens were arrested police in belgium , the netherlands and germany have arrested at least 10 islamists suspected of plotting an attack in belgium .
another 15 were arrested for allegedly recruiting insurgents for iraq and afghanistan . police in belgium and neighboring countries carried out two separate anti-terror raids on tuesday , arresting at least 25 people .
federal prosecutors in belgium first announced the arrests of at least 10 islamists suspected of plotting an attack on an unknown target in belgium .
" ten belgian , dutch , moroccan and russian nationals have been arrested , " a spokesman for the belgian prosecutor 's office said on tuesday .
the russian nationals were of chechen origin , he said .
one of those russians has been detained in the western german city of aachen , close to the dutch border .
the others were arrested in belgium 's second city antwerp and in the dutch capital amsterdam .
extremist websites under scrutiny the group used the extremist website ansar al mujahideen , according to the prosecutors .
the target has not been determined yet .
" there 's also a website called sharia for belgium , which is dedicated to people who have motive to launch some kind of attack on belgium specifically , " deutsche welle 's brussels correspondent vanessa mock said . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : security measures have been stepped up across germany " but at the moment we do n't know exactly how those websites feed into those groups , " she added .
the arrests followed a months-long investigation initiated by the belgian authorities in late 2009 in cooperation with its european neighbors and the eu 's judicial cooperation unit eurojust .
the target of the attack is not known , but " they believe it might have been on antwerp , seeing as the bulk of the arrests were made there .
it has n't been confirmed , but that 's where the houses were raided , " mock said .
at least 15 arrested in later raids later on tuesday evening , belgian prosecutors announced at least 15 further arrests , made as part of an unrelated set of property searches in brussels .
this second probe was investigating an iraq and afghanistan war recruitment drive , and a spokeswoman for the prosecutor 's office said that " about 15 people " were detained .
belgian authorities said the raids were the culmination of a three year investigation into a belgian islamic center , conducted with the cooperation of foreign police services .
some of the people arrested are suspected members of a group that has been trying to recruit people to go and fight for the afghan and iraqi insurgencies .
no connection to german terror alert but germany 's interior ministry said on tuesday that the belgian arrests had nothing to do with the current situation in germany , where security measures have been stepped up because of intelligence suggesting a terror attack may be on the cards .
even the first set of arrests , one of which was made in germany , was not thought to be connected to the terror warnings from berlin .
" these are measures taken by the belgian authorities , based on evidence suggesting that young belgians are being recruited for the islamist separatist fight in chechnya , " stefan paris , spokesman for the german interior ministry said on tuesday .
the dutch authorities also said that tuesday 's arrests were not connected to the situation in germany .
author : nicole goebel , mark hallam -lrb- dpa , afp , reuters -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warned that some dangers were being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- german interior ministers acknowledge terror threat , call for calm germany 's interior ministers have called on citizens to continue living their lives as before , in the face of recent terror threats .
on the same day , in namibia , a suspected bomb was found on a plane headed for munich .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- germany steps up security on news of planned terror attack germany announces stepped up security in light of information that terrorists may be planning an attack in the country for late november .
security is to be increased at all airports and train stations .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic at least ten suspects arrested in belgian terror plot .
05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business review we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 23.11.2010 us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraeus said his isaf troops have hard work ahead of them general david petraeus , the commander of nato 's isaf troops in afghanistan , has praised the role of the german military on a visit to berlin .
he also reiterated that security duties would be handed over to kabul by 2014 . us general and isaf commander in afghanistan david petraeus tried to couple optimism with realism on his state visit to berlin , reiterating that the alliance 's target was to hand over security responsibilities to afghan forces by 2014 , but also warning against a swift withdrawal from the country .
" it is of enormous importance that afghanistan not became a sanctuary for al qaeda or other extremists again , " petraeus told assembled reporters in a press conference with german defense minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg .
" the goal is to have afghan forces in the lead in security operations by the end of 2014 .
all our efforts will be aimed at helping afghanistan to develop the capacities to take on this mission throughout the country by that time . "
defense minister guttenberg was also cautious in his assessment of progress in afghanistan , as the isaf troops stationed there struggle against a resilient taliban insurgency .
" we 'll need to breathe deeply , " guttenberg said .
" i think the word ' patience ' will accompany us in these matters for some time . "
karzai criticized bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guttenberg had not met petraeus since the general took up the post both petraeus and guttenberg sought to address recent criticisms of new isaf tactics from afghan president hamid karzai .
karzai specifically pointed to the increasing numbers of night raids by troopers , calling their actions inappropriate and not conducive to reconciliation between western soldiers and afghan civilians .
" -lrb- afghan president karzai -rrb- has long expressed concerns about night raids , if they do n't get the individuals they are after , " petraeus said .
" but i was able to show him the statistics that indicate the very high rate of success of those operations . "
relations between karzai 's government in kabul and the west - not least the us - have become somewhat rocky of late , amid a string of critical comments from all sides .
guttenberg suggested that some of the afghan president 's comments that have caused tension among nato members might never have been intended for international consumption .
" i think it does n't do any political harm to tell president hamid karzai from time to time that statements made with the local population in mind may also have a considerable impact abroad , " the german defense minister said .
" this goes particularly for the political debate in those countries which have allied troops in afghanistan .
we talked about that during -lrb- last weekend 's -rrb- nato summit in lisbon , and i think there 's agreement that more caution and sensitivity will be needed in the future , " he added .
bundeswehr praised bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraues said german troops play a ' key role ' for isaf general petraeus , who is in charge of the isaf forces stationed in afghanistan , was on his first trip to meet with defense minister guttenberg since taking on the job in july .
he also thanked the german military , the bundeswehr , for its contribution in the country .
he praised chancellor merkel 's government 's decision to boost german troop levels in afghanistan to 5,000 , saying the bundeswehr was already performing a " central role " in the country , and that the troop increase would further improve germany 's image .
germany is currently the third largest contributor to the isaf mission in terms of troop numbers , behind only the us and the uk .
a total of roughly 130,000 isaf soldiers are serving in afghanistan .
author : hardy graupner -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : is nato withdrawal from afghanistan by 2014 realistic ?
nato confirmed at its summit in lisbon that it wanted to pull out of afghanistan by the end of 2014 , leaving the afghan security forces in control .
but deutsche welle 's ratbil shamel is skeptical about this aim .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nato to withdraw from afghanistan by 2014 nato nations have approved a plan to start pulling out front-line troops in afghanistan early in 2011 .
however , forces will remain in the most dangerous areas until 2014 , and likely stay in a supporting role beyond then .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- expert pleads for delinking of civilian , military operations in afghanistan europeans should argue for decoupling civilian from military operations in afghanistan at the upcoming nato summit , the head of the eu institute of security studies tells deutsche welle .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- 05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 23.11.2010 ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cowen has come under pressure from all sides irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf . ireland 's prime minister brian cowen pulled the country out of the frying pan of debt on sunday , only to find himself plunged into the fire of a snap election on monday .
after securing a financial rescue believed to be worth up to 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- in loans from the european union and the international monetary fund , the fianna fail party leader was forced to promise early elections as his political friends and enemies both turned on him .
" it is my intention at the conclusion of the budgetary process , with the enactment of the necessary legislation in the new year , to then seek the dissolution of parliament , " prime minister brian cowen told reporters in a hastily-called press conference .
cowen was effectively yielding to his government 's junior coalition partners , the greens , who called for elections in january , although he did n't promise that they would be held in that month .
the two main opposition parties , labour and fine gael , had demanded an immediate dissolution of parliament instead .
" what is needed now is an immediate general election so that a new government , with a clear parliamentary majority , can prepare the four-year economic plan , complete negotiations with the eu and imf and frame a budget for 2011 , " fine gael leader enda kenny wrote in an e-mailed statement .
first things first bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland requested help with its runaway debts on sunday cowen 's government is set to publish a four-year economic plan on wednesday and a new , cost-cutting budget on december 7 - a process that is crucial to secure loan payments from the eu and imf .
cowen said these processes would have to be completed before the dissolution of parliament , so as to protect ireland from financial collapse .
the junior coalition partners , the greens , pledged to support the government only until january ; party leader john gormley called on cowen to name a date for elections in the new year , saying the irish people needed " political certainty " and had been " misled and betrayed " by the prime minister 's cabinet .
for about a week , ireland had insisted that it could recover its economy without outside help , but caved in on sunday and requested a bailout from the eu and imf , following in the footsteps of greece earlier this year .
the country faces a budget deficit of 32 percent of gross domestic product , a figure which has ballooned because of the government bailout of its largest moneylender , anglo-irish bank .
even without this extra expense , the country 's 2010 shortfall would have comfortably exceeded the eu 's prescribed limit of 3 percent of gdp .
tough sell for european leaders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel may struggle to convince her party and her people that germany should foot part of the irish bill german chancellor angela merkel said on monday that the irish rescue was " positive overall , " because under the terms of the new deal , dublin would be forced to obey terms set by the eu and imf .
merkel said the rescue package was necessary to stabilize the european single currency , the euro .
a similar loan package for greece earlier this year , the first of its kind , was particularly unpopular in germany , not least among merkel 's conservative christian democratic union .
britain 's cash-strapped government , which is implementing its own series of tough austerity measures , also came under fire for contributing to the irish rescue , but the government defended the action .
" ireland is a friend in need , and we are here to help , " the conservative chancellor of the exchequer , george osborne said .
also on monday , the credit ratings agency moody 's said it would probably downgrade ireland 's sovereign debt by several notches in light of the eu-imf rescue .
author : mark hallam -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- eu agrees bailout for ireland eu finance ministers have agreed on a bailout fund for ireland to tackle the country 's huge budget deficit and save its banking sector .
it 's the second eu bailout package this year .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- germany denies pressuring ireland over business tax a german government spokesman said ireland should be allowed to determine its own corporation tax rate , despite recent pressure from a senior finance expert in chancellor angela merkel 's party .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic what is the real price of aid for ireland 's government ? -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- the people of ireland face tough times -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- how the rescue package works -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- 05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- 05 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 23.11.2010 dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : buying kagawa was one of the smartest and cheapest things dortmund have done " money scores goals " - so the old football cliche .
but while some pricey transfers have yet to yield dividends , players acquired for relatively little or nothing at all have been setting german soccer on fire . 350,000 euros is a fair amount of a money - enough , for instance , to purchase a comfortable dwelling in a decent neighborhood in most european cities .
but it 's not sufficient to buy the top-scoring midfielder in a major european football league .
unless , of course , that player is shinji kagawa .
dortmund 's acquisition of the japanese whirlwind for the soccer equivalent of loose change has been one of the stories of the year .
but it 's actually fairly typical both of the dortmund squad overall and a topsy-turvy season in which bargains have outperformed big-name signings .
germany 's sportbild newspaper recently did some math and discovered that the dortmund side currently steamrolling the league cost the club less than one-sixth of what it paid for its 2002 squad , the last time dortmund won the bundesliga .
bildunterschrift : barrios ' value has shot through the roof from back to front , dortmund have been getting excellent returns on modest investments .
even the club 's top striker , lukas barrios , only cost 4.5 million euros -lrb- $ 6.2 million -rrb- in transfer fees , a pittance compared with the sums bayern munich paid for mario gomez -lrb- ca .
35 million euros -rrb- or schalke for klaas-jan huntelaar -lrb- 14 million -rrb- .
kagawa and barrios illustrate the impact that good scouting can have .
discovering new talent may be harder than opening up the purse strings to purchase established players ' services , but it 's a better way to improve a squad .
persistence pays off bildunterschrift : cisse was worth the wait for freiburg if barrios is a bargain , freiburg 's papiss demba cisse is nothing short of sensation .
in 29 games for the small southern german club , the senegalese striker has scored 16 goals .
the 1.5 million euros freiburg paid to acquire him from french club metz in the winter break last year may be the highest transfer sum in club history , but he 's been worth every cent .
by comparison , lukas podolski , who cost cologne 10 million , only has 6 goals in 40 matches .
freiburg were originally rebuffed by metz when they made their first bid for cisse at the start of last season .
but they hung tough in pursuit of the man they wanted , and their patience has been rewarded .
bildunterschrift : ya konan has given hanover reason to smile another steal has been hanover 's didier ya konan who came in at the beginning of last season from rosenborg trondheim for 500,000 euros .
his 12 goals in 31 matches does n't immediately take one 's breath away but consider how impotent hanover 's attack otherwise is .
since his arrival , hanover has n't earned a single point from the ten games in which ya konan has n't been able to play .
the ivorian striker was a key reason why hanover avoided relegation last season and are fourth in the table after thirteen rounds in this one .
the half-a-million hanover shelled out now seems like next to nothing .
but some other valuable contributors have in fact come even cheaper .
fabulous freebies bildunterschrift : in piszczek , dortmund got a good defender for nothing even better than unearthing bargains is finding players whose contracts are expiring and thus can be had free of transfer charges .
one increasingly important member of dortmund 's squad is right back lukasz piszczek , who forced the own goal in the 2-1 win over freiburg on saturday that kept the men in yellow 's winning streak alive .
the polish national got relegated with hertha berlin last season , but dortmund recognized his potential .
and after an initial period of adjustment , he 's established himself in a hard-to-fill position for a title-worthy squad .
another way , of course , to acquire quality is to borrow it .
mainz , of course , have done fantastically well with rising german star lewis holtby this year .
he 's actually under contract to schalke , who must be ruing the decision to send him off for a year of development he obviously does n't need .
the undisputed masters of the rent-a-talent game , though , are nuremberg .
the club , as they 're known , borrowed a quartet of players from bayern and hamburg last year and successfully avoided relegation .
bildunterschrift : schieber , right , has helped nuremberg keep an even keel this year , julian schieber from stuttgart and mehmet ekici from bayern have been key members of a squad that has kept a comfortable distance between themselves and the drop zone .
arguably , borrowing talent does little for a club 's medium-term development .
on the other hand , nuremberg are above schalke and stuttgart in the table , and mainz are better than everyone but dortmund .
so it 's hard to take them to task for temporarily acquiring some good players for free .
author : jefferson chase editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dortmund stay top , raul awakens to lead schalke bundesliga leaders borussia dortmund clinched a 2-1 win over freiburg to keep ahead at the top of the league standings .
the much-criticzed raul , meanwhile , hit a hat trick as schalke demolished bremen 4-0 .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- germany coach loew taps young dortmund talent for sweden friendly the mercurial rise of youthful dortmund in the bundesliga has not gone unnoticed .
for wednesday 's match , germany 's coach has called up a quartet of dortmunders .
some may being staying in the national squad .
-lrb- 16.11.2010 -rrb- dortmund widen first-place bundesliga lead with victory against hamburg after goals from shinji kagawa and lucas barrios , dortmund managed to shut out opponents hamburg in friday 's lone bundesliga football match , keeping the team at the top of the table .
-lrb- 12.11.2010 -rrb- 05 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaftsbilanz we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
women 's world cup live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's next match against france : july 5 , 18:30 utc dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report corruption soccer scandal turkish police arrest 60 people in turkey 's biggest ever soccer match-fixing scandal .
anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 23.11.2010 portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portugal is seen as a future candidate for help portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next . portuguese prime minister jose socrates said on monday that his country 's economy remained robust and that there was no need for lisbon to ask for a financial rescue package .
the comments came after ireland conceded in agreeing to apply for a financial bailout program from the european union and international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portuguese prime minister socrates welcomed the irish acceptance of help portugal is high on the list of possible future rescue package recipients .
however , socrates said that his country 's financial system was performing well and said that its level of public debt - expected to be 7.3 percent for 2010 - was in line with the eu average .
" there are no links between portugal and ireland , " said socrates .
" i 've heard a lot of talk of the imf .
the country does not have any need for aid . "
the prime minister said he hoped that the irish acceptance of a financial package , which follows that of greece earlier in the year , would reassure nervous lending markets .
" i hope that the fact that ireland has asked for european union funds will permit the situation on the markets to return to normal , because portugal is feeling the effects of contagion very much , " said socrates .
lisbon keen to stay in driving seat like the irish administration , which had been reluctant to seek assistance , portugal 's socialist government is keen to avoid the need for outside help and any resulting loss of sovereignty .
such a course of action could prove unpopular with the electorate , with many older voters remembering traumatic interventions by the imf in the 1970s and 1980s .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish rescue deal follows a bailout for greece earlier this year this led to public spending being slashed at a time when the welfare system was too insufficient to provide proper protection for those affected .
however , some believe that both the imf 's approach and the situation of a more developed portugal in 2010 mean that a bailout is not so unthinkable .
" i think the mood against the imf is changing slightly , " economist pedro lains told deutsche welle .
" you see people who are responsible - officials and those connected to the opposition social democratic party - now they are changing their discourse slightly : they 're saying it is not a drama , that if it comes maybe it 's necessary . "
the center-right social democrat opposition has said it will not vote against the state budget for 2011 .
included in the budget are plans to cut public sector salaries and narrow the deficit to 4.6 percent of gdp .
away from parliament , a general strike was planned for wednesday - the first in two decades to be called by both of portugal 's two main trade union federations .
spain also claims to be different in neighboring spain , another country viewed as likely to need help , prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero said there were differences with the irish situation .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland 's prime minister is facing elections after the budget is approved zapatero 's socialist party 's organizational secretary , marcelino iglesias , quoted the premier as saying that bank stress tests during the summer - to assess the preparedness of banks for another financial crisis - had shown that the spanish financial sector was strong .
dublin 's economic woes stem in large part from the necessity to provide its own multi-billion euro financial aid plan to the troubled anglo-irish bank .
a spokesman for the eu 's economics commissioner also ruled out the risk of ireland 's problems precipitating a domino effect .
" there are no analogies to be made ; the irish case is very specific , " spokesman amadeu altafaj told reporters in brussels .
" the decisions concerning ireland are also meant to stop any possible tension and contagion to other economies , " he added .
the dublin rescue package - which could amount to as much as 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- - was agreed on sunday .
author : alison roberts , richard connor -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- portuguese government seals deal on austerity budget portugal 's minority socialist government has reached a deal with the country 's center-right opposition to introduce an austerity budget .
the agreement is seen as crucial step in averting political and financial chaos .
-lrb- 31.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic portugal could be the next candidate for financial aid -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- 05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week brain drain , jobs and headscarves listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
north korea attacks south korean island -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de asia -pipe- 23.11.2010 north korea attacks south korean island großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the shelling set buildings on fire and lasted about an hour north korea has shelled the south korean border island of yeonpyeong , killing two marines and injuring several others , prompting international condemnation .
the north says the south fired on it first . south korean officials and media reports said on tuesday that north korean air force jets fired dozens of shells at the border island , setting buildings ablaze and injuring at least a dozen other people . south korean troops based on the island fired back , and the military was put on top alert , news agencies in the south reported . north korea , meanwhile , said the south had fired first ; seoul acknowledged it was conducting military operations close to the disputed maritime border between the two territories , but said it had been firing west , not north . a senior south korean defense ministry official , lee hong-ki , called the shelling " an intentional attack " and a " clear violation of the armistice " between the two countries . south korean president lee myung-bak said in response that his government was working to prevent the exchange of fire between the north and south .
however , he added that his country would retaliate should the north attack again . a defense ministry spokesman said that a class-a military alert for battle situations had been imposed immediately . major powers condemn the attack un secretary-general ban ki-moon described the attack as " one of the gravest incidents since the end of the korean war " and called for restraint by both sides . in the united states , the white house issued a statement " strongly condemning " the artillery attack and called on north korea " to halt its belligerent action . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german minister said the incident endangered peace german foreign minister guido westerwelle said he was " very worried about this newest development " and appealed for " moderation among the participants . " " this renewed provocation endangers peace in the region , " westerwelle said . japan , china and russia also voiced deep concern over the incident . japanese prime minister naoto kan said he had ordered his cabinet ministers to prepare for any eventuality . russia warned against an escalation of tensions and called the attack " unacceptable . "
in moscow , foreign minister sergei lavrov urged both sides to show restraint to prevent a wider conflict . " there is a colossal danger , which must be avoided , " lavrov warned , adding that " those who started this bear a huge responsibility . " bildunterschrift : yeonpyeong is in a sensitive border area of the yellow sea south korea 's ytn television said air force jets were scrambled , after what appeared to be one of the most serious border incidents since the 1950-53 war .
the two koreas are still technically at war , as that conflict ended only in a truce . local islanders were evacuated to safe areas , and the military and police were checking the number of casualties , ytn reported .
residents were also said to be fleeing the island by fishing boat . unconfirmed eyewitness reports said that fires caused by the shelling were now burning out of control and spreading . south korea 's unification ministry reportedly told ytn that it was considering evacuating its citizens in north korea , who work at the kaesong industrial park and mount kumgang resort . yeonpyeong island lies about three kilometers -lrb- 1.8 miles -rrb- south of the sea border and 120 kilometers west of seoul . the yellow sea border was the scene of deadly naval clashes in 1999 and 2002 , and the north 's alleged involvement in the sinking of a south korean ship there last november damaged already tense ties between the two neighbors . author : gabriel borrud , gregg benzow -lrb- ap , dpa , afp , reuters -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de north korea reportedly fires artillery barrage south korean military officials have said that the north fired 100 shells into waters near the disputed inter-korean sea border .
the incident comes after a south korea accused the north of detaining a fishing boat .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- south korean-us simulation attack drills anger pyongyang north korea has once again criticized joint military exercises conducted by the us and south korea .
the drills come as tension on the korean peninsula is high and speculation about the leadership in pyongyang is rife .
-lrb- 17.08.2010 -rrb- us announces fresh sanctions against n. korea the us has announced new sanctions against north korea .
the measures are to target pyongyang 's weapons ' proliferation and the import of luxury goods .
-lrb- 21.07.2010 -rrb- north korea proliferation report raises international , regional stakes a leaked un document revealed to reporters in new york recently accuses north korea of defying existing sanctions on arms control and nuclear proliferation by exporting technology to iran , syria and burma .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic north korea shells south korea -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- 05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greece on fiscal track , but must make deeper cuts , lenders say -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de greece -pipe- 23.11.2010 greece on fiscal track , but must make deeper cuts , lenders say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in deep water , greece gets new financial lifeline greece has gained approval for the next installment from an eu and imf financial rescue package , but lenders have demanded even tougher austerity measures . after doubts were voiced in the last two weeks that greece may not be eligible for another piece of the financial rescue pie , athens moved to pledge new efforts to meet the terms of a 110-billion euro -lrb- $ 151 million -rrb- bailout .
international lenders on tuesday said they would help , but prescribed an even stricter regimen for greece to regain financial stability .
the international monetary fund and the european union both stressed that greece would have to cut waste from its health care system and state-owned companies and take tougher action on tax evasion to merit another payout from the rescue fund .
greece ‘ largely on track ' eu and imf auditors , who had been to greece to assess the country 's fiscal progress , said the program was at a crossroads .
the auditors said that greece was " largely on track " with reforms and approved the release in december of nine billion euros in rescue funds .
the approval of the third tranche of the bailout money had been delayed by a day because negotiations on deeper cuts were continuing .
a fourth and bigger slice of aid , totaling 15 billion euros , is due in march , but would depend on progress made with the latest requested measures to combat greece 's massive budget deficit and national debt .
the auditors , however , also did not rule out extending the repayment timetable , or providing an additional loan to greece .
author : gregg benzow -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- greece pledges bigger cuts to make eu targets after admitting it will miss this year 's targets , greece has pledged to hike sales tax , freeze pensions and cut government waste in order to shrink its deficit in 2011 .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- 05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 23.11.2010 bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : borriello fell , but retained his composure to start the fight back bayern munich suffered a shock defeat against champions league rivals roma , conceding two late goals .
the italians came out on top despite a two-goal lead for the bavarians through in-form mario gomez . bayern munich squandered a two-goal lead to hand victory to champions league opponents roma in tuesday 's soccer action .
louis van gaal 's men , who have already qualified for the knockout stages of the competition , went ahead through two goals from in-form striker mario gomez .
although roma started well , it was gomez who broke the deadlock on 34 minutes , when franck ribery skillfully turned the ball to gomez , who beat defender marco cassetti to put the ball into the corner of goal .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gomez has scored 14 goals in his last 10 games five minutes later , a misplaced pass from roma 's jeremy menez was picked up by thomas mueller .
the german midfielder 's pass allowed gomez to double his tally , firing in across goalkeeper julio sergio .
the goal means gomez has now scored 14 goals in his last 10 games .
with bayern cruising , it was up to roma to muster a strong comeback if they were to boost their chances of qualification .
the italian revival began after the restart , when roma coach claudio ranieri moved menez from behind the attack to wide right .
menez easily beat bayern 's anatoliy tymoshchuk and martin demichelis to cross the ball for forward marco borriello .
although boriello fell as tried to control the pass , he was still able to flick the ball into goal past keeper thomas kraft .
late goals seal win the equalizer came nine minutes from time , as john arne riise fired the ball across the box for daniele de rossi to put away .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern have a superior record in their head-to-head encounters with roma substitute francesco totti made it 3-2 from the penalty spot on 84 minutes , after borriello was brought down by goalkeeper thomas kraft .
coach louis van gaal criticized his side for throwing away a lead .
" the problem was , we lost too many balls and gave too many chances to roma , " said van gaal .
" we ’ ve thrown away a game again . " van gaal 's criticism of his players comes as the dutch coach is increasingly under fire for his management style . on tuesday , midfielder ribery said he was disappointed to hear van gaal accuse him of a lacklustre performance in a friendly against third division side unterhaching .
van gaal has also been accused of arrogance by club boss uli hoeness . bayern still top group e with 12 points and can not be supplanted by second-place roma , who have an inferior head-to head record with the bavarians .
in wednesday 's champions league football , schalke play host to lyon and bremen are away to london side tottenham hotspur .
author : richard connor -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : catherine bolsover send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich coast to win over nuremberg bayern munich wrapped up the 12th bundesliga match day with an easy win over nuremberg .
freiburg scored an extra time goal to squeak out a victory against hoffenheim .
-lrb- 14.11.2010 -rrb- by luck or judgment , van gaal has bayern back on course forced for months to withstand talk of " crisis , " bundesliga giant bayern munich are beginning to stir .
with champions league progress now secure , the bavarians may get down to business - and rip through the league .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- bayern ease through to champions league knockout phase germany international mario gomez was given a rare start as bayern munich outplayed romanian side cfr cluj 4-0 on wednesday .
gomez contributed with a hat trick , helping his team to the champions league knockout stages .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- 05 dw-tv europe live hin & weg - das reisemagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
women 's world cup live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's next match against france : july 5 , 18:30 utc dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report corruption soccer scandal turkish police arrest 60 people in turkey 's biggest ever soccer match-fixing scandal .
anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
death sentence puts pakistan 's blasphemy law in the spotlight -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 23.11.2010 death sentence puts pakistan 's blasphemy law in the spotlight großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : asia bibi 's family members are hoping for a presidential pardon pakistan 's opinion makers are engaged in a heated debate about the country 's blasphemy law after a 45-year-old christian woman was sentenced to death . pakistan 's blasphemy law has once again become a topic of heated discussion after the recent handing down of the death sentence to asia bibi .
the 45-year-old christian woman was arrested in june last year after her neighbors complained that she had made derogatory remarks about prophet mohammed .
blasphemy and lynch justice when it comes to blasphemy in the islamic republic of pakistan , the law is clear - it is a crime punishable by death to speak ill of islam and prophet mohammed .
although hundreds have been convicted of blasphemy , nobody in pakistan has ever been executed for the offence .
most convictions are retracted after the accused makes an appeal .
however , angry mobs have killed people accused of blasphemy .
in july this year , two christian brothers were gunned down in faisalabad after being accused of writing a sacrilegious letter against the prophet .
fareed ahmad pracha from the muslim movement jamaat i islami is an ardent defender of the blasphemy law .
" we have false murder cases in our country , false witnesses and it is possible that a case may be wrong , " he said . "
" we just want to say that the law should be enforced properly , there should not be any change made into the blasphemy law , we will not tolerate or accept this .
if you make way even for a single change in the law , then there will be a number of changes , whereas there has never been a case where anyone has been punished . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : there have been demonstrations for asia bibi all over the world , including in pakistan call for repeal of the law asia bibi ’ s sentencing to death has triggered an outcry among human rights groups and the international community .
some pakistani politicians have also called on the president to pardon asia bibi .
bibi herself has said that she was involved in a dispute after some women laborers she was in the fields with said they would not drink water from the same bowl because she was not a muslim .
she says they slapped her and pulled her hair .
they apparently later went to the police and accused her of making derogatory remarks about prophet mohammed .
sisal chaudhary , a local christian leader in pakistan , is angry about discrimination against the christian minority in pakistan .
" many innocent people have been killed , " he pointed out .
" people who did not even have a case registered against them .
how can you stop this ?
there is only one solution to this and that is for this law to be completely repealed .
many people have suffered , many settlements have been razed down because of this law , many people have spent 10 or 12 years in prison .
it is wrong to say that no one has been really killed because of this law .
now they want to start hanging people but they have been killing people for a long time . "
shahbaz bhatti , pakistan 's minister for minority affairs , has now been commissioned by president asif ali zardari to look into the case .
a christian himself , he has said it was a personal dispute and asia bibi did not commit blasphemy .
he is due to submit the findings of his report on wednesday .
author : manasi golapakrishnan editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- irish blasphemy law triggers protests blasphemy is now a crime in ireland punishable by a fine .
atheists and the osce have called on dublin to repeal the law as quickly as possible , but some countries , such as pakistan , think it is worth copying .
-lrb- 14.01.2010 -rrb- german-iranian author receives culture prize after religious row after a lot of controversy , the hessian culture prize 2009 has been presented .
one of the winners , navid kermani , received an official apology for being temporarily denied the award .
-lrb- 27.11.2009 -rrb- feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
05 india a doctor and rights activist has been sentenced to life imprisonment for supporting the maoists .
dw correspondent murali krishnan talks about the case of binayak sen asia compact join us on facebook !
thai emergency the thai government has lifted the state of emergency in bangkok .
dw correspondent ron corben talks about the lifting of the emergency eight months after being imposed december asia quiz quiz of the month listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 24.12.10 indian rights activist sentenced to life imprisonment bhutto murder still a mystery after three years myanmar faces uncertainty in 2011 podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 23.11.2010 portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portugal is seen as a future candidate for help portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next . portuguese prime minister jose socrates said on monday that his country 's economy remained robust and that there was no need for lisbon to ask for a financial rescue package .
the comments came after ireland conceded in agreeing to apply for a financial bailout program from the european union and international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portuguese prime minister socrates welcomed the irish acceptance of help portugal is high on the list of possible future rescue package recipients .
however , socrates said that his country 's financial system was performing well and said that its level of public debt - expected to be 7.3 percent for 2010 - was in line with the eu average .
" there are no links between portugal and ireland , " said socrates .
" i 've heard a lot of talk of the imf .
the country does not have any need for aid . "
the prime minister said he hoped that the irish acceptance of a financial package , which follows that of greece earlier in the year , would reassure nervous lending markets .
" i hope that the fact that ireland has asked for european union funds will permit the situation on the markets to return to normal , because portugal is feeling the effects of contagion very much , " said socrates .
lisbon keen to stay in driving seat like the irish administration , which had been reluctant to seek assistance , portugal 's socialist government is keen to avoid the need for outside help and any resulting loss of sovereignty .
such a course of action could prove unpopular with the electorate , with many older voters remembering traumatic interventions by the imf in the 1970s and 1980s .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish rescue deal follows a bailout for greece earlier this year this led to public spending being slashed at a time when the welfare system was too insufficient to provide proper protection for those affected .
however , some believe that both the imf 's approach and the situation of a more developed portugal in 2010 mean that a bailout is not so unthinkable .
" i think the mood against the imf is changing slightly , " economist pedro lains told deutsche welle .
" you see people who are responsible - officials and those connected to the opposition social democratic party - now they are changing their discourse slightly : they 're saying it is not a drama , that if it comes maybe it 's necessary . "
the center-right social democrat opposition has said it will not vote against the state budget for 2011 .
included in the budget are plans to cut public sector salaries and narrow the deficit to 4.6 percent of gdp .
away from parliament , a general strike was planned for wednesday - the first in two decades to be called by both of portugal 's two main trade union federations .
spain also claims to be different in neighboring spain , another country viewed as likely to need help , prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero said there were differences with the irish situation .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland 's prime minister is facing elections after the budget is approved zapatero 's socialist party 's organizational secretary , marcelino iglesias , quoted the premier as saying that bank stress tests during the summer - to assess the preparedness of banks for another financial crisis - had shown that the spanish financial sector was strong .
dublin 's economic woes stem in large part from the necessity to provide its own multi-billion euro financial aid plan to the troubled anglo-irish bank .
a spokesman for the eu 's economics commissioner also ruled out the risk of ireland 's problems precipitating a domino effect .
" there are no analogies to be made ; the irish case is very specific , " spokesman amadeu altafaj told reporters in brussels .
" the decisions concerning ireland are also meant to stop any possible tension and contagion to other economies , " he added .
the dublin rescue package - which could amount to as much as 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- - was agreed on sunday .
author : alison roberts , richard connor -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- portuguese government seals deal on austerity budget portugal 's minority socialist government has reached a deal with the country 's center-right opposition to introduce an austerity budget .
the agreement is seen as crucial step in averting political and financial chaos .
-lrb- 31.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic portugal could be the next candidate for financial aid -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- feedback are more countries likely to need help to reassure markets ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
senior policeman charged over germany-bound hoax bomb -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 23.11.2010 senior policeman charged over germany-bound hoax bomb großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police in germany are on high alert for terrorism a senior namibian police officer has been charged with the planting of a fake bomb amid luggage bound for germany .
berlin denies involvement in a security operation , reports say . a high-ranking airport police officer was charged on monday over the planting of a fake bomb in luggage on its way from namibia to germany .
the 51-year-old man was charged at a magistrates ' court in the namibian capital of windhoek with breaking airport and explosive laws .
namibian police said the man had worked for airport security for at least five years , and that there was no apparent motive for the planting of the fake device .
german news agency dpa said that berlin 's ambassador in windhoek , egon kochanke , had denied reports that a security exercise at the airport involving germany had played a role in the incident .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the fake device was found in a screening area at the airport " there was no such thing as a german security exercise with a dummy luggage bomb , " kochanke said .
claims of german involvement in exercise a namibian newspaper had earlier reported that an unnamed cabinet member from the country had complained that germany 's involvement had been " reckless and irresponsible . "
the claim that german authorities were involved had also been denied by the namibian government .
the device was found in a luggage screening area at windhoek 's hosea kutako airport and led to the delay of an air berlin flight to munich . an x-ray investigation had revealed a detonator wired to batteries was present , along with a clock - but no explosive material was found .
germany is currently on alert , with warnings of heightened terrorism threats .
public access to the reichstag , germany 's parliament building , was restricted on monday after weekend reports that islamist militants had plans to attack the berlin landmark .
author : richard connor -lrb- dpa , ap -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de does germany need color-coded security ?
experts disagree on the merits of terror alert levels as germany steps up security over concerns of a possible islamist attack .
the country does not have a warning system like those in the uk and the us .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warn that some dangers are being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- suspect package in namibia was a ' dummy , ' says interior minister the suspicious package found at a namibian airport en route to munich was a " dummy , " according to the german interior minister thomas de maiziere .
investigations have begun to find out who bought and planted the case .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread -pipe- protecting biodiversity in suriname -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home europe making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa agricultural insurance in ghana climate champions in uganda green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america micro-hydro power plants in peru renewable energy in the caribbean cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features wind power solar power hydropower biodiversity -pipe- 23.11.2010 threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : leatherback turtles have existed for millions of years the earth is home to some 20 million species , and many more that scientists believe have never been identified .
they say species extinctions are on the rise , with repercussions for mankind . the leatherback turtle lives on the coast of suriname .
weighing up to 700 kilos -lrb- 1,540 pounds -rrb- and as long as 2.5 meters -lrb- 8 feet -rrb- , it 's the world 's largest sea turtle .
but sheer size is n't enough to prevent it from dying out .
its reproductive patterns are highly sensitive to rising temperatures : sands in many areas are today so scorching that eggs can not survive , and moreover , sand temperatures determine the sex ratio of turtle eggs .
if the sand in which they lay their eggs gets too hot , more female turtles are produced – which destroys the natural gender balance and endangers breeding success over the long term .
a further problem is loss of nesting and feeding habitats due to rising sea-levels .
taken together , all this means their numbers are declining dramatically and they have been added to the international union for conservation of nature -lrb- iucn -rrb- " red list " of threatened species .
according to experts , if no action is taken to protect leatherbacks , these reptiles , which have existed for over 65 million years , will disappear in our lifetime .
climate change and biodiversity bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : clownfish are losing their sense of smell the united nations declared 2010 to be the international year of biodiversity , with research showing that , via global warming , man is responsible for the greatest extinction of wildlife since the demise of the dinosaurs .
one-fifth of the world 's vertebrates face extinction , according to the latest figures released by the iucn .
in fact , the role played by global warming is a matter of keen debate .
many scientists believe that other factors contribute , such as poaching , and the fact that the consequences of climate change are intensified by pollution .
climate change is also having severe impacts on migratory species .
that is also likely to be increasingly disruptive , experts say .
" these days , you come across species in places where they 've never been before , " said wendy foden , of the species program run by the iucn in london .
" some species are migrating to colder regions , and in south america , that means further south and higher altitudes . "
marine life is equally affected but the animals have fewer migratory options .
increased co2 levels in the atmosphere are changing ocean ph levels , a process which alters many species ' habitat .
what it means for mankind helen foden cites the example of the clownfish .
“ when the water is more acidic than usual , clownfish start to lose their sense of smell , " she said .
like many reef and coastal fish , clownfish are swept off their home reefs into the open ocean as babies , and use their acute senses of smell to find their way back .
the tiny larvae of many coastal fish rely on scent cues in the water to help locate adult habitat .
iucn experts now hope to use the popularity of the clownfish to raise awareness of how climate change is impacting ecosystems .
" thanks to the movie ‘ finding nemo , ' everyone is familiar with clownfish , " said foden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the tiny noblella pygmaea mini frog was only discovered in 2009 species extinction has an immediate effect on mankind .
according to a recent survey carried out in germany , two-thirds of those questioned said that they would be personally affected by biodiversity loss , but mainly in terms of their leisure-time activities .
in fact , the repercussions will be significantly further-reaching .
the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity -lrb- teeb -rrb- study is a major international initiative set up to draw attention to the global economic benefits of biodiversity and to highlight the growing costs of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation . it puts the worldwide economic value of the pollination service provided by insect pollinators , for example , at some € 153 billion -lrb- $ 210 billion -rrb- – proof that species ' extinction is about far more than leisure activities .
however , the teeb study has been unable to give a precise figure to the cost of loss of biodiversity , simply because many species have never been identified . unknown species bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south america is believed to be home to the world 's greatest biodiversity some 1.9 million species are officially catalogued , but this is believed to be just a small percentage of the species that actually exist .
researchers estimate that about 100 species die out every year , and since their function in the ecosystem is not necessarily known , scientists are not in a position to identify the consequences of their extinction .
gudrun mernitz is co-founder of the resource center for marine organisms .
she and her team have isolated several hundred substances out of marine micro-organisms , which are now being examined as potential components in pharmaceuticals . " several might be active against types of cancer , " said mernitz .
in the past 10 years , some 6 percent of medicines developed were derived from natural substances , says rolf hoemke from the association of research-based pharmaceuticals companies .
" it might be anything , even the intestines of a bug , " he said .
the pharmaceutical potential of biodiversity should not underestimated .
researchers from conservation international take regular field trips to document biodiversity and to locate where the establishment of conservation areas would be most constructive .
the idea is that by protecting animal and plant species from pollution and poaching , they may adjust over time to climate change .
author : marion huetter -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de extinction threatens over one fifth of world 's plants the world 's plants are facing an extinction rate on a par with mammals .
one in five plant species is at threat of dying out , says a new study released ahead of the un 's biodiversity summit in japan in october .
-lrb- 29.09.2010 -rrb- russia convenes leaders ' summit to save tigers from extinction the fate of the world 's 3,500 wild tigers is the theme at a conference in russia this week .
leaders from the 13 nations with wild tigers are meeting amid claims that the animals could be extinct within a dozen years .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think should be done to preserve biodiversity ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 main page english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv .
global 3000 25.04.2011 edition as video on demand radio listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 28.04.11 -rrb- the living planet page get connected global ideas : stay up to date facebook twitter videos on youtube podcast via rss-feed podcast via itunes our planet dw 's in depth reporting on environement and development issues .
click here © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread -pipe- protecting biodiversity in suriname -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home europe turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia bio-coal in india biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power hydropower biodiversity -pipe- 23.11.2010 threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : leatherback turtles have existed for millions of years the earth is home to some 20 million species , and many more that scientists believe have never been identified .
they say species extinctions are on the rise , with repercussions for mankind . the leatherback turtle lives on the coast of suriname .
weighing up to 700 kilos -lrb- 1,540 pounds -rrb- and as long as 2.5 meters -lrb- 8 feet -rrb- , it 's the world 's largest sea turtle .
but sheer size is n't enough to prevent it from dying out .
its reproductive patterns are highly sensitive to rising temperatures : sands in many areas are today so scorching that eggs can not survive , and moreover , sand temperatures determine the sex ratio of turtle eggs .
if the sand in which they lay their eggs gets too hot , more female turtles are produced – which destroys the natural gender balance and endangers breeding success over the long term .
a further problem is loss of nesting and feeding habitats due to rising sea-levels .
taken together , all this means their numbers are declining dramatically and they have been added to the international union for conservation of nature -lrb- iucn -rrb- " red list " of threatened species .
according to experts , if no action is taken to protect leatherbacks , these reptiles , which have existed for over 65 million years , will disappear in our lifetime .
climate change and biodiversity bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : clownfish are losing their sense of smell the united nations declared 2010 to be the international year of biodiversity , with research showing that , via global warming , man is responsible for the greatest extinction of wildlife since the demise of the dinosaurs .
one-fifth of the world 's vertebrates face extinction , according to the latest figures released by the iucn .
in fact , the role played by global warming is a matter of keen debate .
many scientists believe that other factors contribute , such as poaching , and the fact that the consequences of climate change are intensified by pollution .
climate change is also having severe impacts on migratory species .
that is also likely to be increasingly disruptive , experts say .
" these days , you come across species in places where they 've never been before , " said wendy foden , of the species program run by the iucn in london .
" some species are migrating to colder regions , and in south america , that means further south and higher altitudes . "
marine life is equally affected but the animals have fewer migratory options .
increased co2 levels in the atmosphere are changing ocean ph levels , a process which alters many species ' habitat .
what it means for mankind helen foden cites the example of the clownfish .
“ when the water is more acidic than usual , clownfish start to lose their sense of smell , " she said .
like many reef and coastal fish , clownfish are swept off their home reefs into the open ocean as babies , and use their acute senses of smell to find their way back .
the tiny larvae of many coastal fish rely on scent cues in the water to help locate adult habitat .
iucn experts now hope to use the popularity of the clownfish to raise awareness of how climate change is impacting ecosystems .
" thanks to the movie ‘ finding nemo , ' everyone is familiar with clownfish , " said foden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the tiny noblella pygmaea mini frog was only discovered in 2009 species extinction has an immediate effect on mankind .
according to a recent survey carried out in germany , two-thirds of those questioned said that they would be personally affected by biodiversity loss , but mainly in terms of their leisure-time activities .
in fact , the repercussions will be significantly further-reaching .
the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity -lrb- teeb -rrb- study is a major international initiative set up to draw attention to the global economic benefits of biodiversity and to highlight the growing costs of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation . it puts the worldwide economic value of the pollination service provided by insect pollinators , for example , at some € 153 billion -lrb- $ 210 billion -rrb- – proof that species ' extinction is about far more than leisure activities .
however , the teeb study has been unable to give a precise figure to the cost of loss of biodiversity , simply because many species have never been identified . unknown species bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south america is believed to be home to the world 's greatest biodiversity some 1.9 million species are officially catalogued , but this is believed to be just a small percentage of the species that actually exist .
researchers estimate that about 100 species die out every year , and since their function in the ecosystem is not necessarily known , scientists are not in a position to identify the consequences of their extinction .
gudrun mernitz is co-founder of the resource center for marine organisms .
she and her team have isolated several hundred substances out of marine micro-organisms , which are now being examined as potential components in pharmaceuticals . " several might be active against types of cancer , " said mernitz .
in the past 10 years , some 6 percent of medicines developed were derived from natural substances , says rolf hoemke from the association of research-based pharmaceuticals companies .
" it might be anything , even the intestines of a bug , " he said .
the pharmaceutical potential of biodiversity should not underestimated .
researchers from conservation international take regular field trips to document biodiversity and to locate where the establishment of conservation areas would be most constructive .
the idea is that by protecting animal and plant species from pollution and poaching , they may adjust over time to climate change .
author : marion huetter -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de extinction threatens over one fifth of world 's plants the world 's plants are facing an extinction rate on a par with mammals .
one in five plant species is at threat of dying out , says a new study released ahead of the un 's biodiversity summit in japan in october .
-lrb- 29.09.2010 -rrb- russia convenes leaders ' summit to save tigers from extinction the fate of the world 's 3,500 wild tigers is the theme at a conference in russia this week .
leaders from the 13 nations with wild tigers are meeting amid claims that the animals could be extinct within a dozen years .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think should be done to preserve biodiversity ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 main page english deutsch español 中文 عربي dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv .
global 3000 13.12.2010 edition as video on demand radio listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 16.12.10 -rrb- get connected global ideas : stay up to date facebook twitter videos on youtube podcast via rss-feed podcast via itunes our planet dw 's in depth reporting on environement and development issues .
click here © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread -pipe- protecting biodiversity in suriname -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home europe energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power hydropower biodiversity -pipe- 23.11.2010 threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : leatherback turtles have existed for millions of years the earth is home to some 20 million species , and many more that scientists believe have never been identified .
they say species extinctions are on the rise , with repercussions for mankind . the leatherback turtle lives on the coast of suriname .
weighing up to 700 kilos -lrb- 1,540 pounds -rrb- and as long as 2.5 meters -lrb- 8 feet -rrb- , it 's the world 's largest sea turtle .
but sheer size is n't enough to prevent it from dying out .
its reproductive patterns are highly sensitive to rising temperatures : sands in many areas are today so scorching that eggs can not survive , and moreover , sand temperatures determine the sex ratio of turtle eggs .
if the sand in which they lay their eggs gets too hot , more female turtles are produced – which destroys the natural gender balance and endangers breeding success over the long term .
a further problem is loss of nesting and feeding habitats due to rising sea-levels .
taken together , all this means their numbers are declining dramatically and they have been added to the international union for conservation of nature -lrb- iucn -rrb- " red list " of threatened species .
according to experts , if no action is taken to protect leatherbacks , these reptiles , which have existed for over 65 million years , will disappear in our lifetime .
climate change and biodiversity bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : clownfish are losing their sense of smell the united nations declared 2010 to be the international year of biodiversity , with research showing that , via global warming , man is responsible for the greatest extinction of wildlife since the demise of the dinosaurs .
one-fifth of the world 's vertebrates face extinction , according to the latest figures released by the iucn .
in fact , the role played by global warming is a matter of keen debate .
many scientists believe that other factors contribute , such as poaching , and the fact that the consequences of climate change are intensified by pollution .
climate change is also having severe impacts on migratory species .
that is also likely to be increasingly disruptive , experts say .
" these days , you come across species in places where they 've never been before , " said wendy foden , of the species program run by the iucn in london .
" some species are migrating to colder regions , and in south america , that means further south and higher altitudes . "
marine life is equally affected but the animals have fewer migratory options .
increased co2 levels in the atmosphere are changing ocean ph levels , a process which alters many species ' habitat .
what it means for mankind helen foden cites the example of the clownfish .
“ when the water is more acidic than usual , clownfish start to lose their sense of smell , " she said .
like many reef and coastal fish , clownfish are swept off their home reefs into the open ocean as babies , and use their acute senses of smell to find their way back .
the tiny larvae of many coastal fish rely on scent cues in the water to help locate adult habitat .
iucn experts now hope to use the popularity of the clownfish to raise awareness of how climate change is impacting ecosystems .
" thanks to the movie ‘ finding nemo , ' everyone is familiar with clownfish , " said foden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the tiny noblella pygmaea mini frog was only discovered in 2009 species extinction has an immediate effect on mankind .
according to a recent survey carried out in germany , two-thirds of those questioned said that they would be personally affected by biodiversity loss , but mainly in terms of their leisure-time activities .
in fact , the repercussions will be significantly further-reaching .
the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity -lrb- teeb -rrb- study is a major international initiative set up to draw attention to the global economic benefits of biodiversity and to highlight the growing costs of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation . it puts the worldwide economic value of the pollination service provided by insect pollinators , for example , at some € 153 billion -lrb- $ 210 billion -rrb- – proof that species ' extinction is about far more than leisure activities .
however , the teeb study has been unable to give a precise figure to the cost of loss of biodiversity , simply because many species have never been identified . unknown species bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south america is believed to be home to the world 's greatest biodiversity some 1.9 million species are officially catalogued , but this is believed to be just a small percentage of the species that actually exist .
researchers estimate that about 100 species die out every year , and since their function in the ecosystem is not necessarily known , scientists are not in a position to identify the consequences of their extinction .
gudrun mernitz is co-founder of the resource center for marine organisms .
she and her team have isolated several hundred substances out of marine micro-organisms , which are now being examined as potential components in pharmaceuticals . " several might be active against types of cancer , " said mernitz .
in the past 10 years , some 6 percent of medicines developed were derived from natural substances , says rolf hoemke from the association of research-based pharmaceuticals companies .
" it might be anything , even the intestines of a bug , " he said .
the pharmaceutical potential of biodiversity should not underestimated .
researchers from conservation international take regular field trips to document biodiversity and to locate where the establishment of conservation areas would be most constructive .
the idea is that by protecting animal and plant species from pollution and poaching , they may adjust over time to climate change .
author : marion huetter -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de extinction threatens over one fifth of world 's plants the world 's plants are facing an extinction rate on a par with mammals .
one in five plant species is at threat of dying out , says a new study released ahead of the un 's biodiversity summit in japan in october .
-lrb- 29.09.2010 -rrb- russia convenes leaders ' summit to save tigers from extinction the fate of the world 's 3,500 wild tigers is the theme at a conference in russia this week .
leaders from the 13 nations with wild tigers are meeting amid claims that the animals could be extinct within a dozen years .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think should be done to preserve biodiversity ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 main page english deutsch español 中文 عربي dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv .
global 3000 21.03.2011 edition as video on demand radio listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 24.03.11 -rrb- the living planet page get connected global ideas : stay up to date facebook twitter videos on youtube podcast via rss-feed podcast via itunes our planet dw 's in depth reporting on environement and development issues .
click here © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread -pipe- protecting biodiversity in suriname -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home europe boreal forests in russia making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia green industry park in india hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa renewable energy on the cape verde islands dry forests in zambia agricultural insurance in ghana climate champions in uganda green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america energy-efficient wine production in chile solar roofs in brazil natural paradise in costa rica renewable energy in the caribbean micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features biomass geothermal wind power solar power hydropower biodiversity -pipe- 23.11.2010 threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : leatherback turtles have existed for millions of years the earth is home to some 20 million species , and many more that scientists believe have never been identified .
they say species extinctions are on the rise , with repercussions for mankind . the leatherback turtle lives on the coast of suriname .
weighing up to 700 kilos -lrb- 1,540 pounds -rrb- and as long as 2.5 meters -lrb- 8 feet -rrb- , it 's the world 's largest sea turtle .
but sheer size is n't enough to prevent it from dying out .
its reproductive patterns are highly sensitive to rising temperatures : sands in many areas are today so scorching that eggs can not survive , and moreover , sand temperatures determine the sex ratio of turtle eggs .
if the sand in which they lay their eggs gets too hot , more female turtles are produced – which destroys the natural gender balance and endangers breeding success over the long term .
a further problem is loss of nesting and feeding habitats due to rising sea-levels .
taken together , all this means their numbers are declining dramatically and they have been added to the international union for conservation of nature -lrb- iucn -rrb- " red list " of threatened species .
according to experts , if no action is taken to protect leatherbacks , these reptiles , which have existed for over 65 million years , will disappear in our lifetime .
climate change and biodiversity bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : clownfish are losing their sense of smell the united nations declared 2010 to be the international year of biodiversity , with research showing that , via global warming , man is responsible for the greatest extinction of wildlife since the demise of the dinosaurs .
one-fifth of the world 's vertebrates face extinction , according to the latest figures released by the iucn .
in fact , the role played by global warming is a matter of keen debate .
many scientists believe that other factors contribute , such as poaching , and the fact that the consequences of climate change are intensified by pollution .
climate change is also having severe impacts on migratory species .
that is also likely to be increasingly disruptive , experts say .
" these days , you come across species in places where they 've never been before , " said wendy foden , of the species program run by the iucn in london .
" some species are migrating to colder regions , and in south america , that means further south and higher altitudes . "
marine life is equally affected but the animals have fewer migratory options .
increased co2 levels in the atmosphere are changing ocean ph levels , a process which alters many species ' habitat .
what it means for mankind helen foden cites the example of the clownfish .
“ when the water is more acidic than usual , clownfish start to lose their sense of smell , " she said .
like many reef and coastal fish , clownfish are swept off their home reefs into the open ocean as babies , and use their acute senses of smell to find their way back .
the tiny larvae of many coastal fish rely on scent cues in the water to help locate adult habitat .
iucn experts now hope to use the popularity of the clownfish to raise awareness of how climate change is impacting ecosystems .
" thanks to the movie ‘ finding nemo , ' everyone is familiar with clownfish , " said foden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the tiny noblella pygmaea mini frog was only discovered in 2009 species extinction has an immediate effect on mankind .
according to a recent survey carried out in germany , two-thirds of those questioned said that they would be personally affected by biodiversity loss , but mainly in terms of their leisure-time activities .
in fact , the repercussions will be significantly further-reaching .
the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity -lrb- teeb -rrb- study is a major international initiative set up to draw attention to the global economic benefits of biodiversity and to highlight the growing costs of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation . it puts the worldwide economic value of the pollination service provided by insect pollinators , for example , at some € 153 billion -lrb- $ 210 billion -rrb- – proof that species ' extinction is about far more than leisure activities .
however , the teeb study has been unable to give a precise figure to the cost of loss of biodiversity , simply because many species have never been identified . unknown species bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south america is believed to be home to the world 's greatest biodiversity some 1.9 million species are officially catalogued , but this is believed to be just a small percentage of the species that actually exist .
researchers estimate that about 100 species die out every year , and since their function in the ecosystem is not necessarily known , scientists are not in a position to identify the consequences of their extinction .
gudrun mernitz is co-founder of the resource center for marine organisms .
she and her team have isolated several hundred substances out of marine micro-organisms , which are now being examined as potential components in pharmaceuticals . " several might be active against types of cancer , " said mernitz .
in the past 10 years , some 6 percent of medicines developed were derived from natural substances , says rolf hoemke from the association of research-based pharmaceuticals companies .
" it might be anything , even the intestines of a bug , " he said .
the pharmaceutical potential of biodiversity should not underestimated .
researchers from conservation international take regular field trips to document biodiversity and to locate where the establishment of conservation areas would be most constructive .
the idea is that by protecting animal and plant species from pollution and poaching , they may adjust over time to climate change .
author : marion huetter -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de extinction threatens over one fifth of world 's plants the world 's plants are facing an extinction rate on a par with mammals .
one in five plant species is at threat of dying out , says a new study released ahead of the un 's biodiversity summit in japan in october .
-lrb- 29.09.2010 -rrb- russia convenes leaders ' summit to save tigers from extinction the fate of the world 's 3,500 wild tigers is the theme at a conference in russia this week .
leaders from the 13 nations with wild tigers are meeting amid claims that the animals could be extinct within a dozen years .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- 9798 main page english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv .
global 3000 06.06.2011 edition as video on demand radio listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 09.06.11 -rrb- the living planet page get connected global ideas : stay up to date facebook twitter videos on youtube podcast via rss-feed podcast via itunes our planet dw 's in depth reporting on environement and development issues .
click here © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread -pipe- protecting biodiversity in suriname -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search global ideas choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home europe eco-loans in serbia permafrost in russia boreal forests in russia making electricity from waste in turkey energy efficient construction in ukraine turkey 's wetlands local climate protection in croatia eco-city hamburg new bogs in belarus green electricity in spain forest conservation in russia asia climate change in the himalayas green industry park in india flood prevention in bangladesh hydropower in taiwan climate-friendly rice farming in the philippines recycling on bali wind energy in vietnam electricity from rice and sun in cambodia bio-coal in india eco-tourism in thailand biogas in nepal energy efficiency in kyrgyzstan island conservation in the maldives electricity for mongolia biomass briquettes in india a new forest for georgia energy efficiency in bangladesh coastal conservation in vietnam solar cookers in india coastal conservation in the philippines forest conservation in indonesia palm oil in thailand africa renewable energy on the cape verde islands dry forests in zambia agricultural insurance in ghana climate champions in uganda green energy in namibia women ’ s power in malawi wind power in egypt irrigation in ethiopia combating desertification in morocco water conservation in madagascar mountain forests in rwanda solar pumps in the gambia eco supermarkets in south africa climate aide in south africa eco cooling in swaziland reforestation in tanzania photovoltaics in senegal eco university in ghana thermal energy in kenya latin america energy-efficient wine production in chile solar roofs in brazil natural paradise in costa rica renewable energy in the caribbean micro-hydro power plants in peru cable cars in colombia energy-efficient refrigerators in brazil climate grants for mexico protecting biodiversity in suriname green industry in guyana bamboo houses in colombia energy for the andes solar roofs in argentina green energy in chile rainforest conservation in brazil clean air on mexico 's roads efficient stoves in peru sugar cane in brazil solar roofs in mexico hydropower in honduras middle east water pumps in jordan oceania protecting coral reefs in papua climate protection in papua new guinea island conservation in micronesia features solar power biodiversity -pipe- 23.11.2010 threats to biodiversity are costly and widespread großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : leatherback turtles have existed for millions of years the earth is home to some 20 million species , and many more that scientists believe have never been identified .
they say species extinctions are on the rise , with repercussions for mankind . the leatherback turtle lives on the coast of suriname .
weighing up to 700 kilos -lrb- 1,540 pounds -rrb- and as long as 2.5 meters -lrb- 8 feet -rrb- , it 's the world 's largest sea turtle .
but sheer size is n't enough to prevent it from dying out .
its reproductive patterns are highly sensitive to rising temperatures : sands in many areas are today so scorching that eggs can not survive , and moreover , sand temperatures determine the sex ratio of turtle eggs .
if the sand in which they lay their eggs gets too hot , more female turtles are produced – which destroys the natural gender balance and endangers breeding success over the long term .
a further problem is loss of nesting and feeding habitats due to rising sea-levels .
taken together , all this means their numbers are declining dramatically and they have been added to the international union for conservation of nature -lrb- iucn -rrb- " red list " of threatened species .
according to experts , if no action is taken to protect leatherbacks , these reptiles , which have existed for over 65 million years , will disappear in our lifetime .
climate change and biodiversity bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : clownfish are losing their sense of smell the united nations declared 2010 to be the international year of biodiversity , with research showing that , via global warming , man is responsible for the greatest extinction of wildlife since the demise of the dinosaurs .
one-fifth of the world 's vertebrates face extinction , according to the latest figures released by the iucn .
in fact , the role played by global warming is a matter of keen debate .
many scientists believe that other factors contribute , such as poaching , and the fact that the consequences of climate change are intensified by pollution .
climate change is also having severe impacts on migratory species .
that is also likely to be increasingly disruptive , experts say .
" these days , you come across species in places where they 've never been before , " said wendy foden , of the species program run by the iucn in london .
" some species are migrating to colder regions , and in south america , that means further south and higher altitudes . "
marine life is equally affected but the animals have fewer migratory options .
increased co2 levels in the atmosphere are changing ocean ph levels , a process which alters many species ' habitat .
what it means for mankind helen foden cites the example of the clownfish .
“ when the water is more acidic than usual , clownfish start to lose their sense of smell , " she said .
like many reef and coastal fish , clownfish are swept off their home reefs into the open ocean as babies , and use their acute senses of smell to find their way back .
the tiny larvae of many coastal fish rely on scent cues in the water to help locate adult habitat .
iucn experts now hope to use the popularity of the clownfish to raise awareness of how climate change is impacting ecosystems .
" thanks to the movie ‘ finding nemo , ' everyone is familiar with clownfish , " said foden .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the tiny noblella pygmaea mini frog was only discovered in 2009 species extinction has an immediate effect on mankind .
according to a recent survey carried out in germany , two-thirds of those questioned said that they would be personally affected by biodiversity loss , but mainly in terms of their leisure-time activities .
in fact , the repercussions will be significantly further-reaching .
the economics of ecosystems and biodiversity -lrb- teeb -rrb- study is a major international initiative set up to draw attention to the global economic benefits of biodiversity and to highlight the growing costs of biodiversity loss and ecosystem degradation . it puts the worldwide economic value of the pollination service provided by insect pollinators , for example , at some € 153 billion -lrb- $ 210 billion -rrb- – proof that species ' extinction is about far more than leisure activities .
however , the teeb study has been unable to give a precise figure to the cost of loss of biodiversity , simply because many species have never been identified . unknown species bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : south america is believed to be home to the world 's greatest biodiversity some 1.9 million species are officially catalogued , but this is believed to be just a small percentage of the species that actually exist .
researchers estimate that about 100 species die out every year , and since their function in the ecosystem is not necessarily known , scientists are not in a position to identify the consequences of their extinction .
gudrun mernitz is co-founder of the resource center for marine organisms .
she and her team have isolated several hundred substances out of marine micro-organisms , which are now being examined as potential components in pharmaceuticals . " several might be active against types of cancer , " said mernitz .
in the past 10 years , some 6 percent of medicines developed were derived from natural substances , says rolf hoemke from the association of research-based pharmaceuticals companies .
" it might be anything , even the intestines of a bug , " he said .
the pharmaceutical potential of biodiversity should not underestimated .
researchers from conservation international take regular field trips to document biodiversity and to locate where the establishment of conservation areas would be most constructive .
the idea is that by protecting animal and plant species from pollution and poaching , they may adjust over time to climate change .
author : marion huetter -lrb- jp -rrb- editor : jennifer abramsohn send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de extinction threatens over one fifth of world 's plants the world 's plants are facing an extinction rate on a par with mammals .
one in five plant species is at threat of dying out , says a new study released ahead of the un 's biodiversity summit in japan in october .
-lrb- 29.09.2010 -rrb- russia convenes leaders ' summit to save tigers from extinction the fate of the world 's 3,500 wild tigers is the theme at a conference in russia this week .
leaders from the 13 nations with wild tigers are meeting amid claims that the animals could be extinct within a dozen years .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- critical biodiversity conference opens in japan envoys from around the world will discuss how to reverse the alarming rate of plant and wildlife loss , but compensation disputes between industrialized and developing nations make the meeting 's outcome far from certain .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- 9798 main page english deutsch español 中文 عربي português do brasil dw-tv each week you 'll find more information on globalization on dw-tv .
global 3000 11.07.2011 edition as video on demand radio listen to our weekly environment show or check out individual reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 07.07.11 -rrb- the living planet page get connected global ideas : stay up to date facebook twitter videos on youtube podcast via rss-feed podcast via itunes our planet dw 's in depth reporting on environement and development issues .
click here © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
labor bottleneck squeezes german solar sector -pipe- environment & development -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 23.11.2010 labor bottleneck squeezes german solar sector großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in the solar industry , qualified employees are a scarce commodity jobs in renewable energies in germany have quadrupled since 2006 , but a stubborn lack of qualified employees remains .
immigration policy and a wariness of outsiders could hobble the industry before it hits full stride . as in many countries , renewable energy sources are playing an increasingly important role in germany .
thanks to a generous system of feed-in tariffs , they now account for 16.3 percent of the country 's electricity , according to the renewable energies agency .
indeed , germany has ambitions for the sector that go beyond its own borders .
the export-oriented economy is pinning its hopes on becoming a center of knowledge and innovation that will sell the know-how for clean technologies to the rest of the world .
and why not ?
demand for employees in the renewables sector is growing rapidly and consistently .
in the first quarter of 2010 , the monitoring agency wissenschaftsladen bonn counted 2,289 job openings – a fourfold increase on the 528 jobs listed in the same quarter of 2006 .
so far so good .
but there 's a daunting hurdle confronting germany 's clean economy dreams right now .
demand for skilled workers is outstripping supply .
what 's more , difficult immigration policies , a backlash against multiculturalism and concerns about industrial espionage are stifling what could be a potential solution to the problem – skilled foreign labor .
training not enough bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hans joachim moller says employees are needed at all levels of the industry vast , interlinked networks of manufacturing facilities and research institutions have sprung up around the solar industry of the eastern german state of saxony . some 14 percent of positions for qualified employees were left unfilled here during the first half of 2009 , according to a survey released in april by the institute for employment research .
at solarworld , in the city of freiberg , a highly advanced assembly line of robots – each performing a specialized function – manufactures solar cells .
the company is an international market leader that with facilities stretching around the world from the united states to asia .
speaking at solarworld 's freiberg facility , hans-joachim moller , a professor of experimental physics at the nearby technical university bergakadamie , said labor shortages in germany range from researchers and lab assistants through to technicians .
he wants to see more training programs , with narrower fields of focus tailored to the industry , but he concedes that this will only come at a cost to other sectors of the economy .
" of course that means those people will then be missing elsewhere ...
that is a problem which in my opinion can only be solved by getting people - scientists - from foreign countries .
otherwise it ca n't function , " he told deutsche welle .
just 50 kilometers away , the roth and rau company works on a different , but related process .
specializing in the hardware and technology needed to manufacture solar cells , roth and rau has some 800 employees and offers complete factory systems to their customers .
bernd rau , one of the company 's founders , says his company has explored partnerships with universities in saxony , but the search for skilled workers is becoming increasingly acute . " it is more and more difficult , especially for the it people , and also in engineering and mechanical engineering , " he told deutsche welle .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bernd rau says finding employees for his company has become more difficult language barrier there is a push to attract foreign workers , but it may not be enough .
of the 300 educational programs specialized in renewable energy nationwide , 25 are now taught in english .
that 's up from just seven in 2007 , according to wissenschaftsladen bonn .
and some areas of germany may have to try especially hard to be alluring to outsiders .
claudia kemfert , an energy market specialist at the german institute of economic research in berlin , says the german language is a particularly high hurdle when it comes to attracting foreign workers .
on the international market , it 's simply not very appealing .
to compensate , companies located in eastern germany in particular need to offer good salaries and incentives .
" germany has to do a lot in order to be attractive , both in salary terms and attractive jobs . "
yet kemfert also thinks that the renewables sector has a lot of potential to be attractive to foreigners " because these are jobs of the future and the market will increase drastically all over the world . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : feed in tariffs have made installing solar cells an attractive proposition wary of outsiders the trouble is the industry itself can be wary of outsiders , fearing industrial espionage .
when deutsche welle visited solarworld , photography was completely forbidden .
at and roth and rau it was restricted .
both companies have worldwide operations and lucrative , specialized knowledge to keep secret .
in fact , german companies in general fear losing the competitive edge that their knowledge affords them to foreign competitors .
a survey of security experts done by the german association for security in industry and commerce shows that 74 percent say their companies have knowledge which should be protected .
the survey covered 244 experts and indicates industrial espionage affects companies with operations outside of germany .
just one state to the west of saxony , heinrich metzner of the university of jena in thuringia says some of the international students who have studied photovoltaics at his institute of solid state physics have had to leave germany after completing their studies .
once their student visas expired , they were left with little choice but to return to their home countries and apply their knowledge there instead .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : competition from asia is a real concern for german companies built-in growth cap metzner does n't sympathize much with industry 's fears of spies .
he argues that excessive secrecy has little value in any globalized industry .
knowledge is bound to leak , even by legal means , he says .
" it is inevitable in the globalized economic space when you sell machines and facilities , because manufacturers have to guarantee that their products function properly , " he told deutsche welle .
" and so industry ca n't avoid that know-how will be passed on .
it appears that even as the fields of photovoltaic , and renewable energy in general , grow in leaps and bounds , they may increasingly find themselves limited in their options and struggling to operate within germany as qualified employees become more difficult to find .
immigration policies , protectionist attitudes and an unwillingness to accept foreign workers may well be hampering their efforts , and at the rate the industry is growing , it seems that a limited workforce will stunt the industry 's potential sooner rather than later .
author : gerhard schneibel editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iea predicts oil prices will more than double by 2035 the international energy agency has called for oil subsidies to be eradicated as it predicts that oil demand and prices will rise in the next 25 years , despite a push towards green energy .
-lrb- 09.11.2010 -rrb- german parliament passes law to extend use of nuclear power despite public protests and angry diatribes from the opposition , the german government on thursday took the first major hurdle in a parliamentary vote toward extending the lifespans of nuclear power plants .
-lrb- 28.10.2010 -rrb- smart grids play key role in modern energy infrastructure how do you ensure a steady supply of electricity from fickle renewable sources such as solar , wind and biomass ?
' smart grids ' that manage and distribute flows of electricity could be the answer .
-lrb- 06.09.2010 -rrb- german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- germany to cut subsidies for solar energy a law proposed by chancellor angela merkel 's government would greatly reduce subsidies for solar energy production , and in some cases eliminate them all together .
-lrb- 23.02.2010 -rrb- 9798 environment listen to our weekly show about the environment or check out reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 16.06.11 -rrb- the living planet page development listen to this week 's show for development reports from around the globe or check out back editions .
world in progress -lrb- 15.06.11 -rrb- world in progress page media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
micro-blog follow the feed get dw 's latest environment stories , and more , right away .
nuclear power readers wrote in to share what nuclear power policy is like in the countries where they live .
readers discuss nuclear policy at home map with international reader response web documentary learn what rainforests do , and how they do it .
take an interactive journey to the jungle © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
labor bottleneck squeezes german solar sector -pipe- environment & development -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de environment -pipe- 23.11.2010 labor bottleneck squeezes german solar sector großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in the solar industry , qualified employees are a scarce commodity jobs in renewable energies in germany have quadrupled since 2006 , but a stubborn lack of qualified employees remains .
immigration policy and a wariness of outsiders could hobble the industry before it hits full stride . as in many countries , renewable energy sources are playing an increasingly important role in germany .
thanks to a generous system of feed-in tariffs , they now account for 16.3 percent of the country 's electricity , according to the renewable energies agency .
indeed , germany has ambitions for the sector that go beyond its own borders .
the export-oriented economy is pinning its hopes on becoming a center of knowledge and innovation that will sell the know-how for clean technologies to the rest of the world .
and why not ?
demand for employees in the renewables sector is growing rapidly and consistently .
in the first quarter of 2010 , the monitoring agency wissenschaftsladen bonn counted 2,289 job openings – a fourfold increase on the 528 jobs listed in the same quarter of 2006 .
so far so good .
but there 's a daunting hurdle confronting germany 's clean economy dreams right now .
demand for skilled workers is outstripping supply .
what 's more , difficult immigration policies , a backlash against multiculturalism and concerns about industrial espionage are stifling what could be a potential solution to the problem – skilled foreign labor .
training not enough bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hans joachim moller says employees are needed at all levels of the industry vast , interlinked networks of manufacturing facilities and research institutions have sprung up around the solar industry of the eastern german state of saxony . some 14 percent of positions for qualified employees were left unfilled here during the first half of 2009 , according to a survey released in april by the institute for employment research .
at solarworld , in the city of freiberg , a highly advanced assembly line of robots – each performing a specialized function – manufactures solar cells .
the company is an international market leader that with facilities stretching around the world from the united states to asia .
speaking at solarworld 's freiberg facility , hans-joachim moller , a professor of experimental physics at the nearby technical university bergakadamie , said labor shortages in germany range from researchers and lab assistants through to technicians .
he wants to see more training programs , with narrower fields of focus tailored to the industry , but he concedes that this will only come at a cost to other sectors of the economy .
" of course that means those people will then be missing elsewhere ...
that is a problem which in my opinion can only be solved by getting people - scientists - from foreign countries .
otherwise it ca n't function , " he told deutsche welle .
just 50 kilometers away , the roth and rau company works on a different , but related process .
specializing in the hardware and technology needed to manufacture solar cells , roth and rau has some 800 employees and offers complete factory systems to their customers .
bernd rau , one of the company 's founders , says his company has explored partnerships with universities in saxony , but the search for skilled workers is becoming increasingly acute . " it is more and more difficult , especially for the it people , and also in engineering and mechanical engineering , " he told deutsche welle .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bernd rau says finding employees for his company has become more difficult language barrier there is a push to attract foreign workers , but it may not be enough .
of the 300 educational programs specialized in renewable energy nationwide , 25 are now taught in english .
that 's up from just seven in 2007 , according to wissenschaftsladen bonn .
and some areas of germany may have to try especially hard to be alluring to outsiders .
claudia kemfert , an energy market specialist at the german institute of economic research in berlin , says the german language is a particularly high hurdle when it comes to attracting foreign workers .
on the international market , it 's simply not very appealing .
to compensate , companies located in eastern germany in particular need to offer good salaries and incentives .
" germany has to do a lot in order to be attractive , both in salary terms and attractive jobs . "
yet kemfert also thinks that the renewables sector has a lot of potential to be attractive to foreigners " because these are jobs of the future and the market will increase drastically all over the world . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : feed in tariffs have made installing solar cells an attractive proposition wary of outsiders the trouble is the industry itself can be wary of outsiders , fearing industrial espionage .
when deutsche welle visited solarworld , photography was completely forbidden .
at and roth and rau it was restricted .
both companies have worldwide operations and lucrative , specialized knowledge to keep secret .
in fact , german companies in general fear losing the competitive edge that their knowledge affords them to foreign competitors .
a survey of security experts done by the german association for security in industry and commerce shows that 74 percent say their companies have knowledge which should be protected .
the survey covered 244 experts and indicates industrial espionage affects companies with operations outside of germany .
just one state to the west of saxony , heinrich metzner of the university of jena in thuringia says some of the international students who have studied photovoltaics at his institute of solid state physics have had to leave germany after completing their studies .
once their student visas expired , they were left with little choice but to return to their home countries and apply their knowledge there instead .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : competition from asia is a real concern for german companies built-in growth cap metzner does n't sympathize much with industry 's fears of spies .
he argues that excessive secrecy has little value in any globalized industry .
knowledge is bound to leak , even by legal means , he says .
" it is inevitable in the globalized economic space when you sell machines and facilities , because manufacturers have to guarantee that their products function properly , " he told deutsche welle .
" and so industry ca n't avoid that know-how will be passed on .
it appears that even as the fields of photovoltaic , and renewable energy in general , grow in leaps and bounds , they may increasingly find themselves limited in their options and struggling to operate within germany as qualified employees become more difficult to find .
immigration policies , protectionist attitudes and an unwillingness to accept foreign workers may well be hampering their efforts , and at the rate the industry is growing , it seems that a limited workforce will stunt the industry 's potential sooner rather than later .
author : gerhard schneibel editor : nathan witkop send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de iea predicts oil prices will more than double by 2035 the international energy agency has called for oil subsidies to be eradicated as it predicts that oil demand and prices will rise in the next 25 years , despite a push towards green energy .
-lrb- 09.11.2010 -rrb- german parliament passes law to extend use of nuclear power despite public protests and angry diatribes from the opposition , the german government on thursday took the first major hurdle in a parliamentary vote toward extending the lifespans of nuclear power plants .
-lrb- 28.10.2010 -rrb- smart grids play key role in modern energy infrastructure how do you ensure a steady supply of electricity from fickle renewable sources such as solar , wind and biomass ?
' smart grids ' that manage and distribute flows of electricity could be the answer .
-lrb- 06.09.2010 -rrb- german energy firms try to benefit from china 's green revolution china is the world 's biggest polluter and it is also the biggest market for renewable energies .
german firms are struggling to get their foot in the door .
-lrb- 26.10.2010 -rrb- germany to cut subsidies for solar energy a law proposed by chancellor angela merkel 's government would greatly reduce subsidies for solar energy production , and in some cases eliminate them all together .
-lrb- 23.02.2010 -rrb- 9798 environment listen to our weekly show about the environment or check out reports and past episodes .
living planet -lrb- 21.07.11 -rrb- the living planet page development listen to this week 's show for development reports from around the globe or check out back editions .
listen to world in progress -lrb- 20.07.11 -rrb- world in progress page media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
micro-blog follow the feed get dw 's latest environment stories , and more , right away .
nuclear power readers wrote in to share what nuclear power policy is like in the countries where they live .
readers discuss nuclear policy at home map with international reader response © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greece on fiscal track , but must make deeper cuts , lenders say -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de greece -pipe- 23.11.2010 greece on fiscal track , but must make deeper cuts , lenders say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in deep water , greece gets new financial lifeline greece has gained approval for the next installment from an eu and imf financial rescue package , but lenders have demanded even tougher austerity measures . after doubts were voiced in the last two weeks that greece may not be eligible for another piece of the financial rescue pie , athens moved to pledge new efforts to meet the terms of a 110-billion euro -lrb- $ 151 million -rrb- bailout .
international lenders on tuesday said they would help , but prescribed an even stricter regimen for greece to regain financial stability .
the international monetary fund and the european union both stressed that greece would have to cut waste from its health care system and state-owned companies and take tougher action on tax evasion to merit another payout from the rescue fund .
greece ‘ largely on track ' eu and imf auditors , who had been to greece to assess the country 's fiscal progress , said the program was at a crossroads .
the auditors said that greece was " largely on track " with reforms and approved the release in december of nine billion euros in rescue funds .
the approval of the third tranche of the bailout money had been delayed by a day because negotiations on deeper cuts were continuing .
a fourth and bigger slice of aid , totaling 15 billion euros , is due in march , but would depend on progress made with the latest requested measures to combat greece 's massive budget deficit and national debt .
the auditors , however , also did not rule out extending the repayment timetable , or providing an additional loan to greece .
author : gregg benzow -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- greece pledges bigger cuts to make eu targets after admitting it will miss this year 's targets , greece has pledged to hike sales tax , freeze pensions and cut government waste in order to shrink its deficit in 2011 .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art glass art has been made on the island of murano for centuries , but it still has an exciting future .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greece on fiscal track , but must make deeper cuts , lenders say -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de greece -pipe- 23.11.2010 greece on fiscal track , but must make deeper cuts , lenders say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in deep water , greece gets new financial lifeline greece has gained approval for the next installment from an eu and imf financial rescue package , but lenders have demanded even tougher austerity measures . after doubts were voiced in the last two weeks that greece may not be eligible for another piece of the financial rescue pie , athens moved to pledge new efforts to meet the terms of a 110-billion euro -lrb- $ 151 million -rrb- bailout .
international lenders on tuesday said they would help , but prescribed an even stricter regimen for greece to regain financial stability .
the international monetary fund and the european union both stressed that greece would have to cut waste from its health care system and state-owned companies and take tougher action on tax evasion to merit another payout from the rescue fund .
greece ‘ largely on track ' eu and imf auditors , who had been to greece to assess the country 's fiscal progress , said the program was at a crossroads .
the auditors said that greece was " largely on track " with reforms and approved the release in december of nine billion euros in rescue funds .
the approval of the third tranche of the bailout money had been delayed by a day because negotiations on deeper cuts were continuing .
a fourth and bigger slice of aid , totaling 15 billion euros , is due in march , but would depend on progress made with the latest requested measures to combat greece 's massive budget deficit and national debt .
the auditors , however , also did not rule out extending the repayment timetable , or providing an additional loan to greece .
author : gregg benzow -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- greece pledges bigger cuts to make eu targets after admitting it will miss this year 's targets , greece has pledged to hike sales tax , freeze pensions and cut government waste in order to shrink its deficit in 2011 .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
austria there is no mention of women in the austrian national anthem , but that is about to change .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greece on fiscal track , but must make deeper cuts , lenders say -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de greece -pipe- 23.11.2010 greece on fiscal track , but must make deeper cuts , lenders say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in deep water , greece gets new financial lifeline greece has gained approval for the next installment from an eu and imf financial rescue package , but lenders have demanded even tougher austerity measures . after doubts were voiced in the last two weeks that greece may not be eligible for another piece of the financial rescue pie , athens moved to pledge new efforts to meet the terms of a 110-billion euro -lrb- $ 151 million -rrb- bailout .
international lenders on tuesday said they would help , but prescribed an even stricter regimen for greece to regain financial stability .
the international monetary fund and the european union both stressed that greece would have to cut waste from its health care system and state-owned companies and take tougher action on tax evasion to merit another payout from the rescue fund .
greece ‘ largely on track ' eu and imf auditors , who had been to greece to assess the country 's fiscal progress , said the program was at a crossroads .
the auditors said that greece was " largely on track " with reforms and approved the release in december of nine billion euros in rescue funds .
the approval of the third tranche of the bailout money had been delayed by a day because negotiations on deeper cuts were continuing .
a fourth and bigger slice of aid , totaling 15 billion euros , is due in march , but would depend on progress made with the latest requested measures to combat greece 's massive budget deficit and national debt .
the auditors , however , also did not rule out extending the repayment timetable , or providing an additional loan to greece .
author : gregg benzow -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- greece pledges bigger cuts to make eu targets after admitting it will miss this year 's targets , greece has pledged to hike sales tax , freeze pensions and cut government waste in order to shrink its deficit in 2011 .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think greece will meet its obligations ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live people and politics we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week labor migration and budget cosmetics listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
greece on fiscal track , but must make deeper cuts , lenders say -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de greece -pipe- 23.11.2010 greece on fiscal track , but must make deeper cuts , lenders say großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in deep water , greece gets new financial lifeline greece has gained approval for the next installment from an eu and imf financial rescue package , but lenders have demanded even tougher austerity measures . after doubts were voiced in the last two weeks that greece may not be eligible for another piece of the financial rescue pie , athens moved to pledge new efforts to meet the terms of a 110-billion euro -lrb- $ 151 million -rrb- bailout .
international lenders on tuesday said they would help , but prescribed an even stricter regimen for greece to regain financial stability .
the international monetary fund and the european union both stressed that greece would have to cut waste from its health care system and state-owned companies and take tougher action on tax evasion to merit another payout from the rescue fund .
greece ‘ largely on track ' eu and imf auditors , who had been to greece to assess the country 's fiscal progress , said the program was at a crossroads .
the auditors said that greece was " largely on track " with reforms and approved the release in december of nine billion euros in rescue funds .
the approval of the third tranche of the bailout money had been delayed by a day because negotiations on deeper cuts were continuing .
a fourth and bigger slice of aid , totaling 15 billion euros , is due in march , but would depend on progress made with the latest requested measures to combat greece 's massive budget deficit and national debt .
the auditors , however , also did not rule out extending the repayment timetable , or providing an additional loan to greece .
author : gregg benzow -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- greece pledges bigger cuts to make eu targets after admitting it will miss this year 's targets , greece has pledged to hike sales tax , freeze pensions and cut government waste in order to shrink its deficit in 2011 .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think greece will meet its obligations ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 23.11.2010 bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : borriello fell , but retained his composure to start the fight back bayern munich suffered a shock defeat against champions league rivals roma , conceding two late goals .
the italians came out on top despite a two-goal lead for the bavarians through in-form mario gomez . bayern munich squandered a two-goal lead to hand victory to champions league opponents roma in tuesday 's soccer action .
louis van gaal 's men , who have already qualified for the knockout stages of the competition , went ahead through two goals from in-form striker mario gomez .
although roma started well , it was gomez who broke the deadlock on 34 minutes , when franck ribery skillfully turned the ball to gomez , who beat defender marco cassetti to put the ball into the corner of goal .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gomez has scored 14 goals in his last 10 games five minutes later , a misplaced pass from roma 's jeremy menez was picked up by thomas mueller .
the german midfielder 's pass allowed gomez to double his tally , firing in across goalkeeper julio sergio .
the goal means gomez has now scored 14 goals in his last 10 games .
with bayern cruising , it was up to roma to muster a strong comeback if they were to boost their chances of qualification .
the italian revival began after the restart , when roma coach claudio ranieri moved menez from behind the attack to wide right .
menez easily beat bayern 's anatoliy tymoshchuk and martin demichelis to cross the ball for forward marco borriello .
although boriello fell as tried to control the pass , he was still able to flick the ball into goal past keeper thomas kraft .
late goals seal win the equalizer came nine minutes from time , as john arne riise fired the ball across the box for daniele de rossi to put away .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern have a superior record in their head-to-head encounters with roma substitute francesco totti made it 3-2 from the penalty spot on 84 minutes , after borriello was brought down by goalkeeper thomas kraft .
coach louis van gaal criticized his side for throwing away a lead .
" the problem was , we lost too many balls and gave too many chances to roma , " said van gaal .
" we ’ ve thrown away a game again . " van gaal 's criticism of his players comes as the dutch coach is increasingly under fire for his management style . on tuesday , midfielder ribery said he was disappointed to hear van gaal accuse him of a lacklustre performance in a friendly against third division side unterhaching .
van gaal has also been accused of arrogance by club boss uli hoeness . bayern still top group e with 12 points and can not be supplanted by second-place roma , who have an inferior head-to head record with the bavarians .
in wednesday 's champions league football , schalke play host to lyon and bremen are away to london side tottenham hotspur .
author : richard connor -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : catherine bolsover send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich coast to win over nuremberg bayern munich wrapped up the 12th bundesliga match day with an easy win over nuremberg .
freiburg scored an extra time goal to squeak out a victory against hoffenheim .
-lrb- 14.11.2010 -rrb- by luck or judgment , van gaal has bayern back on course forced for months to withstand talk of " crisis , " bundesliga giant bayern munich are beginning to stir .
with champions league progress now secure , the bavarians may get down to business - and rip through the league .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- bayern ease through to champions league knockout phase germany international mario gomez was given a rare start as bayern munich outplayed romanian side cfr cluj 4-0 on wednesday .
gomez contributed with a hat trick , helping his team to the champions league knockout stages .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- feedback should bayern focus all their efforts on european success this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 23.11.2010 bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : borriello fell , but retained his composure to start the fight back bayern munich suffered a shock defeat against champions league rivals roma , conceding two late goals .
the italians came out on top despite a two-goal lead for the bavarians through in-form mario gomez . bayern munich squandered a two-goal lead to hand victory to champions league opponents roma in tuesday 's soccer action .
louis van gaal 's men , who have already qualified for the knockout stages of the competition , went ahead through two goals from in-form striker mario gomez .
although roma started well , it was gomez who broke the deadlock on 34 minutes , when franck ribery skillfully turned the ball to gomez , who beat defender marco cassetti to put the ball into the corner of goal .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gomez has scored 14 goals in his last 10 games five minutes later , a misplaced pass from roma 's jeremy menez was picked up by thomas mueller .
the german midfielder 's pass allowed gomez to double his tally , firing in across goalkeeper julio sergio .
the goal means gomez has now scored 14 goals in his last 10 games .
with bayern cruising , it was up to roma to muster a strong comeback if they were to boost their chances of qualification .
the italian revival began after the restart , when roma coach claudio ranieri moved menez from behind the attack to wide right .
menez easily beat bayern 's anatoliy tymoshchuk and martin demichelis to cross the ball for forward marco borriello .
although boriello fell as tried to control the pass , he was still able to flick the ball into goal past keeper thomas kraft .
late goals seal win the equalizer came nine minutes from time , as john arne riise fired the ball across the box for daniele de rossi to put away .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern have a superior record in their head-to-head encounters with roma substitute francesco totti made it 3-2 from the penalty spot on 84 minutes , after borriello was brought down by goalkeeper thomas kraft .
coach louis van gaal criticized his side for throwing away a lead .
" the problem was , we lost too many balls and gave too many chances to roma , " said van gaal .
" we ’ ve thrown away a game again . " van gaal 's criticism of his players comes as the dutch coach is increasingly under fire for his management style . on tuesday , midfielder ribery said he was disappointed to hear van gaal accuse him of a lacklustre performance in a friendly against third division side unterhaching .
van gaal has also been accused of arrogance by club boss uli hoeness . bayern still top group e with 12 points and can not be supplanted by second-place roma , who have an inferior head-to head record with the bavarians .
in wednesday 's champions league football , schalke play host to lyon and bremen are away to london side tottenham hotspur .
author : richard connor -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : catherine bolsover send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich coast to win over nuremberg bayern munich wrapped up the 12th bundesliga match day with an easy win over nuremberg .
freiburg scored an extra time goal to squeak out a victory against hoffenheim .
-lrb- 14.11.2010 -rrb- by luck or judgment , van gaal has bayern back on course forced for months to withstand talk of " crisis , " bundesliga giant bayern munich are beginning to stir .
with champions league progress now secure , the bavarians may get down to business - and rip through the league .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- bayern ease through to champions league knockout phase germany international mario gomez was given a rare start as bayern munich outplayed romanian side cfr cluj 4-0 on wednesday .
gomez contributed with a hat trick , helping his team to the champions league knockout stages .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- feedback should bayern focus all their efforts on european success this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live im focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week civil rights leader martin luther king is honored each year listen live bundesliga predictions wakey wakey ! !
dw 's pundits - and the bundesliga - come out of hibernation with the match day 18 predictions .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 23.11.2010 bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : borriello fell , but retained his composure to start the fight back bayern munich suffered a shock defeat against champions league rivals roma , conceding two late goals .
the italians came out on top despite a two-goal lead for the bavarians through in-form mario gomez . bayern munich squandered a two-goal lead to hand victory to champions league opponents roma in tuesday 's soccer action .
louis van gaal 's men , who have already qualified for the knockout stages of the competition , went ahead through two goals from in-form striker mario gomez .
although roma started well , it was gomez who broke the deadlock on 34 minutes , when franck ribery skillfully turned the ball to gomez , who beat defender marco cassetti to put the ball into the corner of goal .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gomez has scored 14 goals in his last 10 games five minutes later , a misplaced pass from roma 's jeremy menez was picked up by thomas mueller .
the german midfielder 's pass allowed gomez to double his tally , firing in across goalkeeper julio sergio .
the goal means gomez has now scored 14 goals in his last 10 games .
with bayern cruising , it was up to roma to muster a strong comeback if they were to boost their chances of qualification .
the italian revival began after the restart , when roma coach claudio ranieri moved menez from behind the attack to wide right .
menez easily beat bayern 's anatoliy tymoshchuk and martin demichelis to cross the ball for forward marco borriello .
although boriello fell as tried to control the pass , he was still able to flick the ball into goal past keeper thomas kraft .
late goals seal win the equalizer came nine minutes from time , as john arne riise fired the ball across the box for daniele de rossi to put away .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern have a superior record in their head-to-head encounters with roma substitute francesco totti made it 3-2 from the penalty spot on 84 minutes , after borriello was brought down by goalkeeper thomas kraft .
coach louis van gaal criticized his side for throwing away a lead .
" the problem was , we lost too many balls and gave too many chances to roma , " said van gaal .
" we ’ ve thrown away a game again . " van gaal 's criticism of his players comes as the dutch coach is increasingly under fire for his management style . on tuesday , midfielder ribery said he was disappointed to hear van gaal accuse him of a lacklustre performance in a friendly against third division side unterhaching .
van gaal has also been accused of arrogance by club boss uli hoeness . bayern still top group e with 12 points and can not be supplanted by second-place roma , who have an inferior head-to head record with the bavarians .
in wednesday 's champions league football , schalke play host to lyon and bremen are away to london side tottenham hotspur .
author : richard connor -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : catherine bolsover send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich coast to win over nuremberg bayern munich wrapped up the 12th bundesliga match day with an easy win over nuremberg .
freiburg scored an extra time goal to squeak out a victory against hoffenheim .
-lrb- 14.11.2010 -rrb- by luck or judgment , van gaal has bayern back on course forced for months to withstand talk of " crisis , " bundesliga giant bayern munich are beginning to stir .
with champions league progress now secure , the bavarians may get down to business - and rip through the league .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- bayern ease through to champions league knockout phase germany international mario gomez was given a rare start as bayern munich outplayed romanian side cfr cluj 4-0 on wednesday .
gomez contributed with a hat trick , helping his team to the champions league knockout stages .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- feedback should bayern focus all their efforts on european success this season ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 23.11.2010 bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : borriello fell , but retained his composure to start the fight back bayern munich suffered a shock defeat against champions league rivals roma , conceding two late goals .
the italians came out on top despite a two-goal lead for the bavarians through in-form mario gomez . bayern munich squandered a two-goal lead to hand victory to champions league opponents roma in tuesday 's soccer action .
louis van gaal 's men , who have already qualified for the knockout stages of the competition , went ahead through two goals from in-form striker mario gomez .
although roma started well , it was gomez who broke the deadlock on 34 minutes , when franck ribery skillfully turned the ball to gomez , who beat defender marco cassetti to put the ball into the corner of goal .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gomez has scored 14 goals in his last 10 games five minutes later , a misplaced pass from roma 's jeremy menez was picked up by thomas mueller .
the german midfielder 's pass allowed gomez to double his tally , firing in across goalkeeper julio sergio .
the goal means gomez has now scored 14 goals in his last 10 games .
with bayern cruising , it was up to roma to muster a strong comeback if they were to boost their chances of qualification .
the italian revival began after the restart , when roma coach claudio ranieri moved menez from behind the attack to wide right .
menez easily beat bayern 's anatoliy tymoshchuk and martin demichelis to cross the ball for forward marco borriello .
although boriello fell as tried to control the pass , he was still able to flick the ball into goal past keeper thomas kraft .
late goals seal win the equalizer came nine minutes from time , as john arne riise fired the ball across the box for daniele de rossi to put away .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern have a superior record in their head-to-head encounters with roma substitute francesco totti made it 3-2 from the penalty spot on 84 minutes , after borriello was brought down by goalkeeper thomas kraft .
coach louis van gaal criticized his side for throwing away a lead .
" the problem was , we lost too many balls and gave too many chances to roma , " said van gaal .
" we ’ ve thrown away a game again . " van gaal 's criticism of his players comes as the dutch coach is increasingly under fire for his management style . on tuesday , midfielder ribery said he was disappointed to hear van gaal accuse him of a lacklustre performance in a friendly against third division side unterhaching .
van gaal has also been accused of arrogance by club boss uli hoeness . bayern still top group e with 12 points and can not be supplanted by second-place roma , who have an inferior head-to head record with the bavarians .
in wednesday 's champions league football , schalke play host to lyon and bremen are away to london side tottenham hotspur .
author : richard connor -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : catherine bolsover send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich coast to win over nuremberg bayern munich wrapped up the 12th bundesliga match day with an easy win over nuremberg .
freiburg scored an extra time goal to squeak out a victory against hoffenheim .
-lrb- 14.11.2010 -rrb- by luck or judgment , van gaal has bayern back on course forced for months to withstand talk of " crisis , " bundesliga giant bayern munich are beginning to stir .
with champions league progress now secure , the bavarians may get down to business - and rip through the league .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- bayern ease through to champions league knockout phase germany international mario gomez was given a rare start as bayern munich outplayed romanian side cfr cluj 4-0 on wednesday .
gomez contributed with a hat trick , helping his team to the champions league knockout stages .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft - das wissenschaftsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de champions league -pipe- 23.11.2010 bayern slump to defeat as roma stage comeback großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : borriello fell , but retained his composure to start the fight back bayern munich suffered a shock defeat against champions league rivals roma , conceding two late goals .
the italians came out on top despite a two-goal lead for the bavarians through in-form mario gomez . bayern munich squandered a two-goal lead to hand victory to champions league opponents roma in tuesday 's soccer action .
louis van gaal 's men , who have already qualified for the knockout stages of the competition , went ahead through two goals from in-form striker mario gomez .
although roma started well , it was gomez who broke the deadlock on 34 minutes , when franck ribery skillfully turned the ball to gomez , who beat defender marco cassetti to put the ball into the corner of goal .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : gomez has scored 14 goals in his last 10 games five minutes later , a misplaced pass from roma 's jeremy menez was picked up by thomas mueller .
the german midfielder 's pass allowed gomez to double his tally , firing in across goalkeeper julio sergio .
the goal means gomez has now scored 14 goals in his last 10 games .
with bayern cruising , it was up to roma to muster a strong comeback if they were to boost their chances of qualification .
the italian revival began after the restart , when roma coach claudio ranieri moved menez from behind the attack to wide right .
menez easily beat bayern 's anatoliy tymoshchuk and martin demichelis to cross the ball for forward marco borriello .
although boriello fell as tried to control the pass , he was still able to flick the ball into goal past keeper thomas kraft .
late goals seal win the equalizer came nine minutes from time , as john arne riise fired the ball across the box for daniele de rossi to put away .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bayern have a superior record in their head-to-head encounters with roma substitute francesco totti made it 3-2 from the penalty spot on 84 minutes , after borriello was brought down by goalkeeper thomas kraft .
coach louis van gaal criticized his side for throwing away a lead .
" the problem was , we lost too many balls and gave too many chances to roma , " said van gaal .
" we ’ ve thrown away a game again . " van gaal 's criticism of his players comes as the dutch coach is increasingly under fire for his management style . on tuesday , midfielder ribery said he was disappointed to hear van gaal accuse him of a lacklustre performance in a friendly against third division side unterhaching .
van gaal has also been accused of arrogance by club boss uli hoeness . bayern still top group e with 12 points and can not be supplanted by second-place roma , who have an inferior head-to head record with the bavarians .
in wednesday 's champions league football , schalke play host to lyon and bremen are away to london side tottenham hotspur .
author : richard connor -lrb- afp , reuters -rrb- editor : catherine bolsover send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de bayern munich coast to win over nuremberg bayern munich wrapped up the 12th bundesliga match day with an easy win over nuremberg .
freiburg scored an extra time goal to squeak out a victory against hoffenheim .
-lrb- 14.11.2010 -rrb- by luck or judgment , van gaal has bayern back on course forced for months to withstand talk of " crisis , " bundesliga giant bayern munich are beginning to stir .
with champions league progress now secure , the bavarians may get down to business - and rip through the league .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- bayern ease through to champions league knockout phase germany international mario gomez was given a rare start as bayern munich outplayed romanian side cfr cluj 4-0 on wednesday .
gomez contributed with a hat trick , helping his team to the champions league knockout stages .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live politik direkt - das politikmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 23.11.2010 portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portugal is seen as a future candidate for help portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next . portuguese prime minister jose socrates said on monday that his country 's economy remained robust and that there was no need for lisbon to ask for a financial rescue package .
the comments came after ireland conceded in agreeing to apply for a financial bailout program from the european union and international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portuguese prime minister socrates welcomed the irish acceptance of help portugal is high on the list of possible future rescue package recipients .
however , socrates said that his country 's financial system was performing well and said that its level of public debt - expected to be 7.3 percent for 2010 - was in line with the eu average .
" there are no links between portugal and ireland , " said socrates .
" i 've heard a lot of talk of the imf .
the country does not have any need for aid . "
the prime minister said he hoped that the irish acceptance of a financial package , which follows that of greece earlier in the year , would reassure nervous lending markets .
" i hope that the fact that ireland has asked for european union funds will permit the situation on the markets to return to normal , because portugal is feeling the effects of contagion very much , " said socrates .
lisbon keen to stay in driving seat like the irish administration , which had been reluctant to seek assistance , portugal 's socialist government is keen to avoid the need for outside help and any resulting loss of sovereignty .
such a course of action could prove unpopular with the electorate , with many older voters remembering traumatic interventions by the imf in the 1970s and 1980s .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish rescue deal follows a bailout for greece earlier this year this led to public spending being slashed at a time when the welfare system was too insufficient to provide proper protection for those affected .
however , some believe that both the imf 's approach and the situation of a more developed portugal in 2010 mean that a bailout is not so unthinkable .
" i think the mood against the imf is changing slightly , " economist pedro lains told deutsche welle .
" you see people who are responsible - officials and those connected to the opposition social democratic party - now they are changing their discourse slightly : they 're saying it is not a drama , that if it comes maybe it 's necessary . "
the center-right social democrat opposition has said it will not vote against the state budget for 2011 .
included in the budget are plans to cut public sector salaries and narrow the deficit to 4.6 percent of gdp .
away from parliament , a general strike was planned for wednesday - the first in two decades to be called by both of portugal 's two main trade union federations .
spain also claims to be different in neighboring spain , another country viewed as likely to need help , prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero said there were differences with the irish situation .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland 's prime minister is facing elections after the budget is approved zapatero 's socialist party 's organizational secretary , marcelino iglesias , quoted the premier as saying that bank stress tests during the summer - to assess the preparedness of banks for another financial crisis - had shown that the spanish financial sector was strong .
dublin 's economic woes stem in large part from the necessity to provide its own multi-billion euro financial aid plan to the troubled anglo-irish bank .
a spokesman for the eu 's economics commissioner also ruled out the risk of ireland 's problems precipitating a domino effect .
" there are no analogies to be made ; the irish case is very specific , " spokesman amadeu altafaj told reporters in brussels .
" the decisions concerning ireland are also meant to stop any possible tension and contagion to other economies , " he added .
the dublin rescue package - which could amount to as much as 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- - was agreed on sunday .
author : alison roberts , richard connor -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- portuguese government seals deal on austerity budget portugal 's minority socialist government has reached a deal with the country 's center-right opposition to introduce an austerity budget .
the agreement is seen as crucial step in averting political and financial chaos .
-lrb- 31.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic portugal could be the next candidate for financial aid -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- feedback are more countries likely to need help to reassure markets ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet cycling 's all the rage listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 23.11.2010 parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : social democrats put the emphasis on unity across the eu , the greens say ireland is a symbol of failed market liberalism and the liberals insist the goal of eurozone countries should be converging economic policies . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic listen to the report from christoph hasselbach in brussels .
9798 dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour mco residency in north-rhine westphalia listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 23.11.2010 parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : social democrats put the emphasis on unity across the eu , the greens say ireland is a symbol of failed market liberalism and the liberals insist the goal of eurozone countries should be converging economic policies . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic listen to the report from christoph hasselbach in brussels .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 23.11.2010 us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraeus said his isaf troops have hard work ahead of them general david petraeus , the commander of nato 's isaf troops in afghanistan , has praised the role of the german military on a visit to berlin .
he also reiterated that security duties would be handed over to kabul by 2014 . us general and isaf commander in afghanistan david petraeus tried to couple optimism with realism on his state visit to berlin , reiterating that the alliance 's target was to hand over security responsibilities to afghan forces by 2014 , but also warning against a swift withdrawal from the country .
" it is of enormous importance that afghanistan not became a sanctuary for al qaeda or other extremists again , " petraeus told assembled reporters in a press conference with german defense minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg .
" the goal is to have afghan forces in the lead in security operations by the end of 2014 .
all our efforts will be aimed at helping afghanistan to develop the capacities to take on this mission throughout the country by that time . "
defense minister guttenberg was also cautious in his assessment of progress in afghanistan , as the isaf troops stationed there struggle against a resilient taliban insurgency .
" we 'll need to breathe deeply , " guttenberg said .
" i think the word ' patience ' will accompany us in these matters for some time . "
karzai criticized bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guttenberg had not met petraeus since the general took up the post both petraeus and guttenberg sought to address recent criticisms of new isaf tactics from afghan president hamid karzai .
karzai specifically pointed to the increasing numbers of night raids by troopers , calling their actions inappropriate and not conducive to reconciliation between western soldiers and afghan civilians .
" -lrb- afghan president karzai -rrb- has long expressed concerns about night raids , if they do n't get the individuals they are after , " petraeus said .
" but i was able to show him the statistics that indicate the very high rate of success of those operations . "
relations between karzai 's government in kabul and the west - not least the us - have become somewhat rocky of late , amid a string of critical comments from all sides .
guttenberg suggested that some of the afghan president 's comments that have caused tension among nato members might never have been intended for international consumption .
" i think it does n't do any political harm to tell president hamid karzai from time to time that statements made with the local population in mind may also have a considerable impact abroad , " the german defense minister said .
" this goes particularly for the political debate in those countries which have allied troops in afghanistan .
we talked about that during -lrb- last weekend 's -rrb- nato summit in lisbon , and i think there 's agreement that more caution and sensitivity will be needed in the future , " he added .
bundeswehr praised bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraues said german troops play a ' key role ' for isaf general petraeus , who is in charge of the isaf forces stationed in afghanistan , was on his first trip to meet with defense minister guttenberg since taking on the job in july .
he also thanked the german military , the bundeswehr , for its contribution in the country .
he praised chancellor merkel 's government 's decision to boost german troop levels in afghanistan to 5,000 , saying the bundeswehr was already performing a " central role " in the country , and that the troop increase would further improve germany 's image .
germany is currently the third largest contributor to the isaf mission in terms of troop numbers , behind only the us and the uk .
a total of roughly 130,000 isaf soldiers are serving in afghanistan .
author : hardy graupner -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : is nato withdrawal from afghanistan by 2014 realistic ?
nato confirmed at its summit in lisbon that it wanted to pull out of afghanistan by the end of 2014 , leaving the afghan security forces in control .
but deutsche welle 's ratbil shamel is skeptical about this aim .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nato to withdraw from afghanistan by 2014 nato nations have approved a plan to start pulling out front-line troops in afghanistan early in 2011 .
however , forces will remain in the most dangerous areas until 2014 , and likely stay in a supporting role beyond then .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- expert pleads for delinking of civilian , military operations in afghanistan europeans should argue for decoupling civilian from military operations in afghanistan at the upcoming nato summit , the head of the eu institute of security studies tells deutsche welle .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- feedback is the afghan withdrawal target of 2014 realistic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live hin & weg we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 23.11.2010 us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraeus said his isaf troops have hard work ahead of them general david petraeus , the commander of nato 's isaf troops in afghanistan , has praised the role of the german military on a visit to berlin .
he also reiterated that security duties would be handed over to kabul by 2014 . us general and isaf commander in afghanistan david petraeus tried to couple optimism with realism on his state visit to berlin , reiterating that the alliance 's target was to hand over security responsibilities to afghan forces by 2014 , but also warning against a swift withdrawal from the country .
" it is of enormous importance that afghanistan not became a sanctuary for al qaeda or other extremists again , " petraeus told assembled reporters in a press conference with german defense minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg .
" the goal is to have afghan forces in the lead in security operations by the end of 2014 .
all our efforts will be aimed at helping afghanistan to develop the capacities to take on this mission throughout the country by that time . "
defense minister guttenberg was also cautious in his assessment of progress in afghanistan , as the isaf troops stationed there struggle against a resilient taliban insurgency .
" we 'll need to breathe deeply , " guttenberg said .
" i think the word ' patience ' will accompany us in these matters for some time . "
karzai criticized bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guttenberg had not met petraeus since the general took up the post both petraeus and guttenberg sought to address recent criticisms of new isaf tactics from afghan president hamid karzai .
karzai specifically pointed to the increasing numbers of night raids by troopers , calling their actions inappropriate and not conducive to reconciliation between western soldiers and afghan civilians .
" -lrb- afghan president karzai -rrb- has long expressed concerns about night raids , if they do n't get the individuals they are after , " petraeus said .
" but i was able to show him the statistics that indicate the very high rate of success of those operations . "
relations between karzai 's government in kabul and the west - not least the us - have become somewhat rocky of late , amid a string of critical comments from all sides .
guttenberg suggested that some of the afghan president 's comments that have caused tension among nato members might never have been intended for international consumption .
" i think it does n't do any political harm to tell president hamid karzai from time to time that statements made with the local population in mind may also have a considerable impact abroad , " the german defense minister said .
" this goes particularly for the political debate in those countries which have allied troops in afghanistan .
we talked about that during -lrb- last weekend 's -rrb- nato summit in lisbon , and i think there 's agreement that more caution and sensitivity will be needed in the future , " he added .
bundeswehr praised bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraues said german troops play a ' key role ' for isaf general petraeus , who is in charge of the isaf forces stationed in afghanistan , was on his first trip to meet with defense minister guttenberg since taking on the job in july .
he also thanked the german military , the bundeswehr , for its contribution in the country .
he praised chancellor merkel 's government 's decision to boost german troop levels in afghanistan to 5,000 , saying the bundeswehr was already performing a " central role " in the country , and that the troop increase would further improve germany 's image .
germany is currently the third largest contributor to the isaf mission in terms of troop numbers , behind only the us and the uk .
a total of roughly 130,000 isaf soldiers are serving in afghanistan .
author : hardy graupner -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : is nato withdrawal from afghanistan by 2014 realistic ?
nato confirmed at its summit in lisbon that it wanted to pull out of afghanistan by the end of 2014 , leaving the afghan security forces in control .
but deutsche welle 's ratbil shamel is skeptical about this aim .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nato to withdraw from afghanistan by 2014 nato nations have approved a plan to start pulling out front-line troops in afghanistan early in 2011 .
however , forces will remain in the most dangerous areas until 2014 , and likely stay in a supporting role beyond then .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- expert pleads for delinking of civilian , military operations in afghanistan europeans should argue for decoupling civilian from military operations in afghanistan at the upcoming nato summit , the head of the eu institute of security studies tells deutsche welle .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- feedback is the afghan withdrawal target of 2014 realistic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 23.11.2010 latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- is where latvians go to send telegrams while many countries around the world have given up the telegraph , it 's still in use in the baltics .
ordinary residents can send them via latvian post , while latvian railway continues to use them to post speed limits . despite the wide prevalence of e-mail and mobile phones , and the demise of the telegraph in most parts of europe , some latvians , including the state railway , still use the telegraph as a primary means of communication .
this month , latvia celebrates the 158th anniversary of the arrival of the electric telegraph in their country .
the telegraph service is operated by the national company latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the first latvian telegraph was sent on nov .
1 , 1852 karīna jankovska , manager of production development at latvia post said that around 200 telegrams continue to be sent within the baltic country every month , or almost seven per day .
in addition , there are approximately 140 telegraphic messages being sent to foreign countries and about 300 international telegrams are being received in latvia on a monthly basis .
the authorities say that the service is still important for those latvians who want to stay in touch with their friends or relatives abroad .
they mostly send telegrams to the former soviet republics like russia , belarus and ukraine .
the telegraph also allows sending and receiving of official documents , like visa declarations .
alternative to e-mail telegrams , which cost just 0.80 latvian lats -lrb- 1.15 euros -rrb- for a domestic message , can be sent from every post office across the country .
one just has to ask the postman for a telegram form and fill in the required information : the name and surname of the sender , the address of the recipient and the message .
however , latvia post admits that the small number of messages that are sent tend to be sent almost exclusively by older latvians who do not use e-mails nor mobile phones , and by those who prefer it for nostalgic reasons .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvian railways continues to use the telegraph for everyday operations " for example , one can easily send a wedding invitation , " jankovska added . " the sender simply has to write the text and pay extra seven cents for each written word .
i think that most of the people use telegrams nowadays because it is interesting . "
forget about morse code the first public electromagnetic telegraph line in the territory of latvia was opened on november 1 , 1852 .
the line connected the capital city of riga with bolderāja , a nearby residential town .
it was the longest civilian telegraph line in the northern europe at the time and the first telegram was sent in german .
but the telegraph technology has changed greatly during the years .
latvia post doesn ’ t employ any vintage telegraph equipment used in the old days in order to provide the telegram service .
all the telegrams are now being sent by computer over the internet using a special e-mail system between the post offices .
the message is printed out with a printer and then delivered to the addressee by the postman the following day .
meanwhile , the telegraphic messages are being used in business as well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the telegraph remains a bit of an anachronism in modern-day riga the latvian railway still uses teletype to communicate between the stations , freight senders and the ports .
for instance , the company utilizes the old-fashioned technology in situations when any speed limitations have to be imposed on the railway network .
" we don ’ t have yet -lsb- this -rsb- so-called e-signature , " said antra birzule , a latvian railway spokesperson .
by contrast , latvia 's northern neighbor , estonia , has had digital signatures and publicly-provided encrypted e-mail for almost a decade .
" those documents sent by teletype are documented as an official document .
if it ’ s just an e-mail it doesn ’ t work yet in latvia at such a high level because in the railway , the key issue is safety .
so , we still rely on the teletype . "
special place in latvian history many latvians are either unaware of , or have forgotten the telegraph 's key role in latvia ’ s fight for restoration of its independence back in january 1991 .
the soviet political and military forces tried to overthrow the latvian authorities by occupying important governmental institutions .
" when the telephone lines were shut down by the kgb , the so called telex central was still operating , " explained ļevs datelis , a latvian telecommunications engineer and expert on latvian telegraph history . " the soviet secret police didn ’ t pay much attention to it and the latvian politicians used it for communication .
it also enabled them to communicate with foreign countries . "
however , despite this history , karīna jankovska of latvia post added that even though the telegram service does n't lose money , the company plans on shutting down the telegram service by 2015 .
author : ģederts ģelzis , riga editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de row breaks out over latvia 's main anti-corruption body plans to shift the focus of the fight against corruption in latvia from the capital riga to the regions will just weaken the anti-corruption drive , critics say .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- economic recovery at stake in latvian elections latvia is just weeks away from its next general election .
one of the key issues is the country 's fledgling economic recovery .
but the party that is leading in the opinion polls wants to forge closer ties with russia .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- riga on a shoestring want to explore europe but you 're on a tight budget ?
pulse takes you to some of europe 's most interesting cities and proves you do n't have to spend a fortune .
in this edition , dw 's gederts gelzis shows you around riga .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 23.11.2010 latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- is where latvians go to send telegrams while many countries around the world have given up the telegraph , it 's still in use in the baltics .
ordinary residents can send them via latvian post , while latvian railway continues to use them to post speed limits . despite the wide prevalence of e-mail and mobile phones , and the demise of the telegraph in most parts of europe , some latvians , including the state railway , still use the telegraph as a primary means of communication .
this month , latvia celebrates the 158th anniversary of the arrival of the electric telegraph in their country .
the telegraph service is operated by the national company latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the first latvian telegraph was sent on nov .
1 , 1852 karīna jankovska , manager of production development at latvia post said that around 200 telegrams continue to be sent within the baltic country every month , or almost seven per day .
in addition , there are approximately 140 telegraphic messages being sent to foreign countries and about 300 international telegrams are being received in latvia on a monthly basis .
the authorities say that the service is still important for those latvians who want to stay in touch with their friends or relatives abroad .
they mostly send telegrams to the former soviet republics like russia , belarus and ukraine .
the telegraph also allows sending and receiving of official documents , like visa declarations .
alternative to e-mail telegrams , which cost just 0.80 latvian lats -lrb- 1.15 euros -rrb- for a domestic message , can be sent from every post office across the country .
one just has to ask the postman for a telegram form and fill in the required information : the name and surname of the sender , the address of the recipient and the message .
however , latvia post admits that the small number of messages that are sent tend to be sent almost exclusively by older latvians who do not use e-mails nor mobile phones , and by those who prefer it for nostalgic reasons .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvian railways continues to use the telegraph for everyday operations " for example , one can easily send a wedding invitation , " jankovska added . " the sender simply has to write the text and pay extra seven cents for each written word .
i think that most of the people use telegrams nowadays because it is interesting . "
forget about morse code the first public electromagnetic telegraph line in the territory of latvia was opened on november 1 , 1852 .
the line connected the capital city of riga with bolderāja , a nearby residential town .
it was the longest civilian telegraph line in the northern europe at the time and the first telegram was sent in german .
but the telegraph technology has changed greatly during the years .
latvia post doesn ’ t employ any vintage telegraph equipment used in the old days in order to provide the telegram service .
all the telegrams are now being sent by computer over the internet using a special e-mail system between the post offices .
the message is printed out with a printer and then delivered to the addressee by the postman the following day .
meanwhile , the telegraphic messages are being used in business as well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the telegraph remains a bit of an anachronism in modern-day riga the latvian railway still uses teletype to communicate between the stations , freight senders and the ports .
for instance , the company utilizes the old-fashioned technology in situations when any speed limitations have to be imposed on the railway network .
" we don ’ t have yet -lsb- this -rsb- so-called e-signature , " said antra birzule , a latvian railway spokesperson .
by contrast , latvia 's northern neighbor , estonia , has had digital signatures and publicly-provided encrypted e-mail for almost a decade .
" those documents sent by teletype are documented as an official document .
if it ’ s just an e-mail it doesn ’ t work yet in latvia at such a high level because in the railway , the key issue is safety .
so , we still rely on the teletype . "
special place in latvian history many latvians are either unaware of , or have forgotten the telegraph 's key role in latvia ’ s fight for restoration of its independence back in january 1991 .
the soviet political and military forces tried to overthrow the latvian authorities by occupying important governmental institutions .
" when the telephone lines were shut down by the kgb , the so called telex central was still operating , " explained ļevs datelis , a latvian telecommunications engineer and expert on latvian telegraph history . " the soviet secret police didn ’ t pay much attention to it and the latvian politicians used it for communication .
it also enabled them to communicate with foreign countries . "
however , despite this history , karīna jankovska of latvia post added that even though the telegram service does n't lose money , the company plans on shutting down the telegram service by 2015 .
author : ģederts ģelzis , riga editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de row breaks out over latvia 's main anti-corruption body plans to shift the focus of the fight against corruption in latvia from the capital riga to the regions will just weaken the anti-corruption drive , critics say .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- economic recovery at stake in latvian elections latvia is just weeks away from its next general election .
one of the key issues is the country 's fledgling economic recovery .
but the party that is leading in the opinion polls wants to forge closer ties with russia .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- riga on a shoestring want to explore europe but you 're on a tight budget ?
pulse takes you to some of europe 's most interesting cities and proves you do n't have to spend a fortune .
in this edition , dw 's gederts gelzis shows you around riga .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 23.11.2010 latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- is where latvians go to send telegrams while many countries around the world have given up the telegraph , it 's still in use in the baltics .
ordinary residents can send them via latvian post , while latvian railway continues to use them to post speed limits . despite the wide prevalence of e-mail and mobile phones , and the demise of the telegraph in most parts of europe , some latvians , including the state railway , still use the telegraph as a primary means of communication .
this month , latvia celebrates the 158th anniversary of the arrival of the electric telegraph in their country .
the telegraph service is operated by the national company latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the first latvian telegraph was sent on nov .
1 , 1852 karīna jankovska , manager of production development at latvia post said that around 200 telegrams continue to be sent within the baltic country every month , or almost seven per day .
in addition , there are approximately 140 telegraphic messages being sent to foreign countries and about 300 international telegrams are being received in latvia on a monthly basis .
the authorities say that the service is still important for those latvians who want to stay in touch with their friends or relatives abroad .
they mostly send telegrams to the former soviet republics like russia , belarus and ukraine .
the telegraph also allows sending and receiving of official documents , like visa declarations .
alternative to e-mail telegrams , which cost just 0.80 latvian lats -lrb- 1.15 euros -rrb- for a domestic message , can be sent from every post office across the country .
one just has to ask the postman for a telegram form and fill in the required information : the name and surname of the sender , the address of the recipient and the message .
however , latvia post admits that the small number of messages that are sent tend to be sent almost exclusively by older latvians who do not use e-mails nor mobile phones , and by those who prefer it for nostalgic reasons .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvian railways continues to use the telegraph for everyday operations " for example , one can easily send a wedding invitation , " jankovska added . " the sender simply has to write the text and pay extra seven cents for each written word .
i think that most of the people use telegrams nowadays because it is interesting . "
forget about morse code the first public electromagnetic telegraph line in the territory of latvia was opened on november 1 , 1852 .
the line connected the capital city of riga with bolderāja , a nearby residential town .
it was the longest civilian telegraph line in the northern europe at the time and the first telegram was sent in german .
but the telegraph technology has changed greatly during the years .
latvia post doesn ’ t employ any vintage telegraph equipment used in the old days in order to provide the telegram service .
all the telegrams are now being sent by computer over the internet using a special e-mail system between the post offices .
the message is printed out with a printer and then delivered to the addressee by the postman the following day .
meanwhile , the telegraphic messages are being used in business as well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the telegraph remains a bit of an anachronism in modern-day riga the latvian railway still uses teletype to communicate between the stations , freight senders and the ports .
for instance , the company utilizes the old-fashioned technology in situations when any speed limitations have to be imposed on the railway network .
" we don ’ t have yet -lsb- this -rsb- so-called e-signature , " said antra birzule , a latvian railway spokesperson .
by contrast , latvia 's northern neighbor , estonia , has had digital signatures and publicly-provided encrypted e-mail for almost a decade .
" those documents sent by teletype are documented as an official document .
if it ’ s just an e-mail it doesn ’ t work yet in latvia at such a high level because in the railway , the key issue is safety .
so , we still rely on the teletype . "
special place in latvian history many latvians are either unaware of , or have forgotten the telegraph 's key role in latvia ’ s fight for restoration of its independence back in january 1991 .
the soviet political and military forces tried to overthrow the latvian authorities by occupying important governmental institutions .
" when the telephone lines were shut down by the kgb , the so called telex central was still operating , " explained ļevs datelis , a latvian telecommunications engineer and expert on latvian telegraph history . " the soviet secret police didn ’ t pay much attention to it and the latvian politicians used it for communication .
it also enabled them to communicate with foreign countries . "
however , despite this history , karīna jankovska of latvia post added that even though the telegram service does n't lose money , the company plans on shutting down the telegram service by 2015 .
author : ģederts ģelzis , riga editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de row breaks out over latvia 's main anti-corruption body plans to shift the focus of the fight against corruption in latvia from the capital riga to the regions will just weaken the anti-corruption drive , critics say .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- economic recovery at stake in latvian elections latvia is just weeks away from its next general election .
one of the key issues is the country 's fledgling economic recovery .
but the party that is leading in the opinion polls wants to forge closer ties with russia .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- riga on a shoestring want to explore europe but you 're on a tight budget ?
pulse takes you to some of europe 's most interesting cities and proves you do n't have to spend a fortune .
in this edition , dw 's gederts gelzis shows you around riga .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years feedback have you ever sent a telegram ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards voting is underway at the bobs - deutsche welle 's annual blog contest .
cast your ballot social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 23.11.2010 latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- is where latvians go to send telegrams while many countries around the world have given up the telegraph , it 's still in use in the baltics .
ordinary residents can send them via latvian post , while latvian railway continues to use them to post speed limits . despite the wide prevalence of e-mail and mobile phones , and the demise of the telegraph in most parts of europe , some latvians , including the state railway , still use the telegraph as a primary means of communication .
this month , latvia celebrates the 158th anniversary of the arrival of the electric telegraph in their country .
the telegraph service is operated by the national company latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the first latvian telegraph was sent on nov .
1 , 1852 karīna jankovska , manager of production development at latvia post said that around 200 telegrams continue to be sent within the baltic country every month , or almost seven per day .
in addition , there are approximately 140 telegraphic messages being sent to foreign countries and about 300 international telegrams are being received in latvia on a monthly basis .
the authorities say that the service is still important for those latvians who want to stay in touch with their friends or relatives abroad .
they mostly send telegrams to the former soviet republics like russia , belarus and ukraine .
the telegraph also allows sending and receiving of official documents , like visa declarations .
alternative to e-mail telegrams , which cost just 0.80 latvian lats -lrb- 1.15 euros -rrb- for a domestic message , can be sent from every post office across the country .
one just has to ask the postman for a telegram form and fill in the required information : the name and surname of the sender , the address of the recipient and the message .
however , latvia post admits that the small number of messages that are sent tend to be sent almost exclusively by older latvians who do not use e-mails nor mobile phones , and by those who prefer it for nostalgic reasons .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvian railways continues to use the telegraph for everyday operations " for example , one can easily send a wedding invitation , " jankovska added . " the sender simply has to write the text and pay extra seven cents for each written word .
i think that most of the people use telegrams nowadays because it is interesting . "
forget about morse code the first public electromagnetic telegraph line in the territory of latvia was opened on november 1 , 1852 .
the line connected the capital city of riga with bolderāja , a nearby residential town .
it was the longest civilian telegraph line in the northern europe at the time and the first telegram was sent in german .
but the telegraph technology has changed greatly during the years .
latvia post doesn ’ t employ any vintage telegraph equipment used in the old days in order to provide the telegram service .
all the telegrams are now being sent by computer over the internet using a special e-mail system between the post offices .
the message is printed out with a printer and then delivered to the addressee by the postman the following day .
meanwhile , the telegraphic messages are being used in business as well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the telegraph remains a bit of an anachronism in modern-day riga the latvian railway still uses teletype to communicate between the stations , freight senders and the ports .
for instance , the company utilizes the old-fashioned technology in situations when any speed limitations have to be imposed on the railway network .
" we don ’ t have yet -lsb- this -rsb- so-called e-signature , " said antra birzule , a latvian railway spokesperson .
by contrast , latvia 's northern neighbor , estonia , has had digital signatures and publicly-provided encrypted e-mail for almost a decade .
" those documents sent by teletype are documented as an official document .
if it ’ s just an e-mail it doesn ’ t work yet in latvia at such a high level because in the railway , the key issue is safety .
so , we still rely on the teletype . "
special place in latvian history many latvians are either unaware of , or have forgotten the telegraph 's key role in latvia ’ s fight for restoration of its independence back in january 1991 .
the soviet political and military forces tried to overthrow the latvian authorities by occupying important governmental institutions .
" when the telephone lines were shut down by the kgb , the so called telex central was still operating , " explained ļevs datelis , a latvian telecommunications engineer and expert on latvian telegraph history . " the soviet secret police didn ’ t pay much attention to it and the latvian politicians used it for communication .
it also enabled them to communicate with foreign countries . "
however , despite this history , karīna jankovska of latvia post added that even though the telegram service does n't lose money , the company plans on shutting down the telegram service by 2015 .
author : ģederts ģelzis , riga editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de row breaks out over latvia 's main anti-corruption body plans to shift the focus of the fight against corruption in latvia from the capital riga to the regions will just weaken the anti-corruption drive , critics say .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- economic recovery at stake in latvian elections latvia is just weeks away from its next general election .
one of the key issues is the country 's fledgling economic recovery .
but the party that is leading in the opinion polls wants to forge closer ties with russia .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- riga on a shoestring want to explore europe but you 're on a tight budget ?
pulse takes you to some of europe 's most interesting cities and proves you do n't have to spend a fortune .
in this edition , dw 's gederts gelzis shows you around riga .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years feedback have you ever sent a telegram ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 23.11.2010 latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- is where latvians go to send telegrams while many countries around the world have given up the telegraph , it 's still in use in the baltics .
ordinary residents can send them via latvian post , while latvian railway continues to use them to post speed limits . despite the wide prevalence of e-mail and mobile phones , and the demise of the telegraph in most parts of europe , some latvians , including the state railway , still use the telegraph as a primary means of communication .
this month , latvia celebrates the 158th anniversary of the arrival of the electric telegraph in their country .
the telegraph service is operated by the national company latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the first latvian telegraph was sent on nov .
1 , 1852 karīna jankovska , manager of production development at latvia post said that around 200 telegrams continue to be sent within the baltic country every month , or almost seven per day .
in addition , there are approximately 140 telegraphic messages being sent to foreign countries and about 300 international telegrams are being received in latvia on a monthly basis .
the authorities say that the service is still important for those latvians who want to stay in touch with their friends or relatives abroad .
they mostly send telegrams to the former soviet republics like russia , belarus and ukraine .
the telegraph also allows sending and receiving of official documents , like visa declarations .
alternative to e-mail telegrams , which cost just 0.80 latvian lats -lrb- 1.15 euros -rrb- for a domestic message , can be sent from every post office across the country .
one just has to ask the postman for a telegram form and fill in the required information : the name and surname of the sender , the address of the recipient and the message .
however , latvia post admits that the small number of messages that are sent tend to be sent almost exclusively by older latvians who do not use e-mails nor mobile phones , and by those who prefer it for nostalgic reasons .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvian railways continues to use the telegraph for everyday operations " for example , one can easily send a wedding invitation , " jankovska added . " the sender simply has to write the text and pay extra seven cents for each written word .
i think that most of the people use telegrams nowadays because it is interesting . "
forget about morse code the first public electromagnetic telegraph line in the territory of latvia was opened on november 1 , 1852 .
the line connected the capital city of riga with bolderāja , a nearby residential town .
it was the longest civilian telegraph line in the northern europe at the time and the first telegram was sent in german .
but the telegraph technology has changed greatly during the years .
latvia post doesn ’ t employ any vintage telegraph equipment used in the old days in order to provide the telegram service .
all the telegrams are now being sent by computer over the internet using a special e-mail system between the post offices .
the message is printed out with a printer and then delivered to the addressee by the postman the following day .
meanwhile , the telegraphic messages are being used in business as well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the telegraph remains a bit of an anachronism in modern-day riga the latvian railway still uses teletype to communicate between the stations , freight senders and the ports .
for instance , the company utilizes the old-fashioned technology in situations when any speed limitations have to be imposed on the railway network .
" we don ’ t have yet -lsb- this -rsb- so-called e-signature , " said antra birzule , a latvian railway spokesperson .
by contrast , latvia 's northern neighbor , estonia , has had digital signatures and publicly-provided encrypted e-mail for almost a decade .
" those documents sent by teletype are documented as an official document .
if it ’ s just an e-mail it doesn ’ t work yet in latvia at such a high level because in the railway , the key issue is safety .
so , we still rely on the teletype . "
special place in latvian history many latvians are either unaware of , or have forgotten the telegraph 's key role in latvia ’ s fight for restoration of its independence back in january 1991 .
the soviet political and military forces tried to overthrow the latvian authorities by occupying important governmental institutions .
" when the telephone lines were shut down by the kgb , the so called telex central was still operating , " explained ļevs datelis , a latvian telecommunications engineer and expert on latvian telegraph history . " the soviet secret police didn ’ t pay much attention to it and the latvian politicians used it for communication .
it also enabled them to communicate with foreign countries . "
however , despite this history , karīna jankovska of latvia post added that even though the telegram service does n't lose money , the company plans on shutting down the telegram service by 2015 .
author : ģederts ģelzis , riga editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de row breaks out over latvia 's main anti-corruption body plans to shift the focus of the fight against corruption in latvia from the capital riga to the regions will just weaken the anti-corruption drive , critics say .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- economic recovery at stake in latvian elections latvia is just weeks away from its next general election .
one of the key issues is the country 's fledgling economic recovery .
but the party that is leading in the opinion polls wants to forge closer ties with russia .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- riga on a shoestring want to explore europe but you 're on a tight budget ?
pulse takes you to some of europe 's most interesting cities and proves you do n't have to spend a fortune .
in this edition , dw 's gederts gelzis shows you around riga .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years feedback have you ever sent a telegram ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de communications -pipe- 23.11.2010 latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- is where latvians go to send telegrams while many countries around the world have given up the telegraph , it 's still in use in the baltics .
ordinary residents can send them via latvian post , while latvian railway continues to use them to post speed limits . despite the wide prevalence of e-mail and mobile phones , and the demise of the telegraph in most parts of europe , some latvians , including the state railway , still use the telegraph as a primary means of communication .
this month , latvia celebrates the 158th anniversary of the arrival of the electric telegraph in their country .
the telegraph service is operated by the national company latvijas pasts -lrb- latvia post -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the first latvian telegraph was sent on nov .
1 , 1852 karīna jankovska , manager of production development at latvia post said that around 200 telegrams continue to be sent within the baltic country every month , or almost seven per day .
in addition , there are approximately 140 telegraphic messages being sent to foreign countries and about 300 international telegrams are being received in latvia on a monthly basis .
the authorities say that the service is still important for those latvians who want to stay in touch with their friends or relatives abroad .
they mostly send telegrams to the former soviet republics like russia , belarus and ukraine .
the telegraph also allows sending and receiving of official documents , like visa declarations .
alternative to e-mail telegrams , which cost just 0.80 latvian lats -lrb- 1.15 euros -rrb- for a domestic message , can be sent from every post office across the country .
one just has to ask the postman for a telegram form and fill in the required information : the name and surname of the sender , the address of the recipient and the message .
however , latvia post admits that the small number of messages that are sent tend to be sent almost exclusively by older latvians who do not use e-mails nor mobile phones , and by those who prefer it for nostalgic reasons .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : latvian railways continues to use the telegraph for everyday operations " for example , one can easily send a wedding invitation , " jankovska added . " the sender simply has to write the text and pay extra seven cents for each written word .
i think that most of the people use telegrams nowadays because it is interesting . "
forget about morse code the first public electromagnetic telegraph line in the territory of latvia was opened on november 1 , 1852 .
the line connected the capital city of riga with bolderāja , a nearby residential town .
it was the longest civilian telegraph line in the northern europe at the time and the first telegram was sent in german .
but the telegraph technology has changed greatly during the years .
latvia post doesn ’ t employ any vintage telegraph equipment used in the old days in order to provide the telegram service .
all the telegrams are now being sent by computer over the internet using a special e-mail system between the post offices .
the message is printed out with a printer and then delivered to the addressee by the postman the following day .
meanwhile , the telegraphic messages are being used in business as well .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the telegraph remains a bit of an anachronism in modern-day riga the latvian railway still uses teletype to communicate between the stations , freight senders and the ports .
for instance , the company utilizes the old-fashioned technology in situations when any speed limitations have to be imposed on the railway network .
" we don ’ t have yet -lsb- this -rsb- so-called e-signature , " said antra birzule , a latvian railway spokesperson .
by contrast , latvia 's northern neighbor , estonia , has had digital signatures and publicly-provided encrypted e-mail for almost a decade .
" those documents sent by teletype are documented as an official document .
if it ’ s just an e-mail it doesn ’ t work yet in latvia at such a high level because in the railway , the key issue is safety .
so , we still rely on the teletype . "
special place in latvian history many latvians are either unaware of , or have forgotten the telegraph 's key role in latvia ’ s fight for restoration of its independence back in january 1991 .
the soviet political and military forces tried to overthrow the latvian authorities by occupying important governmental institutions .
" when the telephone lines were shut down by the kgb , the so called telex central was still operating , " explained ļevs datelis , a latvian telecommunications engineer and expert on latvian telegraph history . " the soviet secret police didn ’ t pay much attention to it and the latvian politicians used it for communication .
it also enabled them to communicate with foreign countries . "
however , despite this history , karīna jankovska of latvia post added that even though the telegram service does n't lose money , the company plans on shutting down the telegram service by 2015 .
author : ģederts ģelzis , riga editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de row breaks out over latvia 's main anti-corruption body plans to shift the focus of the fight against corruption in latvia from the capital riga to the regions will just weaken the anti-corruption drive , critics say .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- economic recovery at stake in latvian elections latvia is just weeks away from its next general election .
one of the key issues is the country 's fledgling economic recovery .
but the party that is leading in the opinion polls wants to forge closer ties with russia .
-lrb- 25.08.2010 -rrb- riga on a shoestring want to explore europe but you 're on a tight budget ?
pulse takes you to some of europe 's most interesting cities and proves you do n't have to spend a fortune .
in this edition , dw 's gederts gelzis shows you around riga .
-lrb- 29.06.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic latvian telegraph still going strong after 158 years feedback have you ever sent a telegram ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 23.11.2010 us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraeus said his isaf troops have hard work ahead of them general david petraeus , the commander of nato 's isaf troops in afghanistan , has praised the role of the german military on a visit to berlin .
he also reiterated that security duties would be handed over to kabul by 2014 . us general and isaf commander in afghanistan david petraeus tried to couple optimism with realism on his state visit to berlin , reiterating that the alliance 's target was to hand over security responsibilities to afghan forces by 2014 , but also warning against a swift withdrawal from the country .
" it is of enormous importance that afghanistan not became a sanctuary for al qaeda or other extremists again , " petraeus told assembled reporters in a press conference with german defense minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg .
" the goal is to have afghan forces in the lead in security operations by the end of 2014 .
all our efforts will be aimed at helping afghanistan to develop the capacities to take on this mission throughout the country by that time . "
defense minister guttenberg was also cautious in his assessment of progress in afghanistan , as the isaf troops stationed there struggle against a resilient taliban insurgency .
" we 'll need to breathe deeply , " guttenberg said .
" i think the word ' patience ' will accompany us in these matters for some time . "
karzai criticized bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guttenberg had not met petraeus since the general took up the post both petraeus and guttenberg sought to address recent criticisms of new isaf tactics from afghan president hamid karzai .
karzai specifically pointed to the increasing numbers of night raids by troopers , calling their actions inappropriate and not conducive to reconciliation between western soldiers and afghan civilians .
" -lrb- afghan president karzai -rrb- has long expressed concerns about night raids , if they do n't get the individuals they are after , " petraeus said .
" but i was able to show him the statistics that indicate the very high rate of success of those operations . "
relations between karzai 's government in kabul and the west - not least the us - have become somewhat rocky of late , amid a string of critical comments from all sides .
guttenberg suggested that some of the afghan president 's comments that have caused tension among nato members might never have been intended for international consumption .
" i think it does n't do any political harm to tell president hamid karzai from time to time that statements made with the local population in mind may also have a considerable impact abroad , " the german defense minister said .
" this goes particularly for the political debate in those countries which have allied troops in afghanistan .
we talked about that during -lrb- last weekend 's -rrb- nato summit in lisbon , and i think there 's agreement that more caution and sensitivity will be needed in the future , " he added .
bundeswehr praised bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraues said german troops play a ' key role ' for isaf general petraeus , who is in charge of the isaf forces stationed in afghanistan , was on his first trip to meet with defense minister guttenberg since taking on the job in july .
he also thanked the german military , the bundeswehr , for its contribution in the country .
he praised chancellor merkel 's government 's decision to boost german troop levels in afghanistan to 5,000 , saying the bundeswehr was already performing a " central role " in the country , and that the troop increase would further improve germany 's image .
germany is currently the third largest contributor to the isaf mission in terms of troop numbers , behind only the us and the uk .
a total of roughly 130,000 isaf soldiers are serving in afghanistan .
author : hardy graupner -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : is nato withdrawal from afghanistan by 2014 realistic ?
nato confirmed at its summit in lisbon that it wanted to pull out of afghanistan by the end of 2014 , leaving the afghan security forces in control .
but deutsche welle 's ratbil shamel is skeptical about this aim .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nato to withdraw from afghanistan by 2014 nato nations have approved a plan to start pulling out front-line troops in afghanistan early in 2011 .
however , forces will remain in the most dangerous areas until 2014 , and likely stay in a supporting role beyond then .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- expert pleads for delinking of civilian , military operations in afghanistan europeans should argue for decoupling civilian from military operations in afghanistan at the upcoming nato summit , the head of the eu institute of security studies tells deutsche welle .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- feedback is the afghan withdrawal target of 2014 realistic ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live discover germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live music this week listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 23.11.2010 us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraeus said his isaf troops have hard work ahead of them general david petraeus , the commander of nato 's isaf troops in afghanistan , has praised the role of the german military on a visit to berlin .
he also reiterated that security duties would be handed over to kabul by 2014 . us general and isaf commander in afghanistan david petraeus tried to couple optimism with realism on his state visit to berlin , reiterating that the alliance 's target was to hand over security responsibilities to afghan forces by 2014 , but also warning against a swift withdrawal from the country .
" it is of enormous importance that afghanistan not became a sanctuary for al qaeda or other extremists again , " petraeus told assembled reporters in a press conference with german defense minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg .
" the goal is to have afghan forces in the lead in security operations by the end of 2014 .
all our efforts will be aimed at helping afghanistan to develop the capacities to take on this mission throughout the country by that time . "
defense minister guttenberg was also cautious in his assessment of progress in afghanistan , as the isaf troops stationed there struggle against a resilient taliban insurgency .
" we 'll need to breathe deeply , " guttenberg said .
" i think the word ' patience ' will accompany us in these matters for some time . "
karzai criticized bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guttenberg had not met petraeus since the general took up the post both petraeus and guttenberg sought to address recent criticisms of new isaf tactics from afghan president hamid karzai .
karzai specifically pointed to the increasing numbers of night raids by troopers , calling their actions inappropriate and not conducive to reconciliation between western soldiers and afghan civilians .
" -lrb- afghan president karzai -rrb- has long expressed concerns about night raids , if they do n't get the individuals they are after , " petraeus said .
" but i was able to show him the statistics that indicate the very high rate of success of those operations . "
relations between karzai 's government in kabul and the west - not least the us - have become somewhat rocky of late , amid a string of critical comments from all sides .
guttenberg suggested that some of the afghan president 's comments that have caused tension among nato members might never have been intended for international consumption .
" i think it does n't do any political harm to tell president hamid karzai from time to time that statements made with the local population in mind may also have a considerable impact abroad , " the german defense minister said .
" this goes particularly for the political debate in those countries which have allied troops in afghanistan .
we talked about that during -lrb- last weekend 's -rrb- nato summit in lisbon , and i think there 's agreement that more caution and sensitivity will be needed in the future , " he added .
bundeswehr praised bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraues said german troops play a ' key role ' for isaf general petraeus , who is in charge of the isaf forces stationed in afghanistan , was on his first trip to meet with defense minister guttenberg since taking on the job in july .
he also thanked the german military , the bundeswehr , for its contribution in the country .
he praised chancellor merkel 's government 's decision to boost german troop levels in afghanistan to 5,000 , saying the bundeswehr was already performing a " central role " in the country , and that the troop increase would further improve germany 's image .
germany is currently the third largest contributor to the isaf mission in terms of troop numbers , behind only the us and the uk .
a total of roughly 130,000 isaf soldiers are serving in afghanistan .
author : hardy graupner -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : is nato withdrawal from afghanistan by 2014 realistic ?
nato confirmed at its summit in lisbon that it wanted to pull out of afghanistan by the end of 2014 , leaving the afghan security forces in control .
but deutsche welle 's ratbil shamel is skeptical about this aim .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nato to withdraw from afghanistan by 2014 nato nations have approved a plan to start pulling out front-line troops in afghanistan early in 2011 .
however , forces will remain in the most dangerous areas until 2014 , and likely stay in a supporting role beyond then .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- expert pleads for delinking of civilian , military operations in afghanistan europeans should argue for decoupling civilian from military operations in afghanistan at the upcoming nato summit , the head of the eu institute of security studies tells deutsche welle .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 23.11.2010 us general hails the bundeswehr 's ' central role ' in afghanistan großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraeus said his isaf troops have hard work ahead of them general david petraeus , the commander of nato 's isaf troops in afghanistan , has praised the role of the german military on a visit to berlin .
he also reiterated that security duties would be handed over to kabul by 2014 . us general and isaf commander in afghanistan david petraeus tried to couple optimism with realism on his state visit to berlin , reiterating that the alliance 's target was to hand over security responsibilities to afghan forces by 2014 , but also warning against a swift withdrawal from the country .
" it is of enormous importance that afghanistan not became a sanctuary for al qaeda or other extremists again , " petraeus told assembled reporters in a press conference with german defense minister karl-theodor zu guttenberg .
" the goal is to have afghan forces in the lead in security operations by the end of 2014 .
all our efforts will be aimed at helping afghanistan to develop the capacities to take on this mission throughout the country by that time . "
defense minister guttenberg was also cautious in his assessment of progress in afghanistan , as the isaf troops stationed there struggle against a resilient taliban insurgency .
" we 'll need to breathe deeply , " guttenberg said .
" i think the word ' patience ' will accompany us in these matters for some time . "
karzai criticized bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : guttenberg had not met petraeus since the general took up the post both petraeus and guttenberg sought to address recent criticisms of new isaf tactics from afghan president hamid karzai .
karzai specifically pointed to the increasing numbers of night raids by troopers , calling their actions inappropriate and not conducive to reconciliation between western soldiers and afghan civilians .
" -lrb- afghan president karzai -rrb- has long expressed concerns about night raids , if they do n't get the individuals they are after , " petraeus said .
" but i was able to show him the statistics that indicate the very high rate of success of those operations . "
relations between karzai 's government in kabul and the west - not least the us - have become somewhat rocky of late , amid a string of critical comments from all sides .
guttenberg suggested that some of the afghan president 's comments that have caused tension among nato members might never have been intended for international consumption .
" i think it does n't do any political harm to tell president hamid karzai from time to time that statements made with the local population in mind may also have a considerable impact abroad , " the german defense minister said .
" this goes particularly for the political debate in those countries which have allied troops in afghanistan .
we talked about that during -lrb- last weekend 's -rrb- nato summit in lisbon , and i think there 's agreement that more caution and sensitivity will be needed in the future , " he added .
bundeswehr praised bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : petraues said german troops play a ' key role ' for isaf general petraeus , who is in charge of the isaf forces stationed in afghanistan , was on his first trip to meet with defense minister guttenberg since taking on the job in july .
he also thanked the german military , the bundeswehr , for its contribution in the country .
he praised chancellor merkel 's government 's decision to boost german troop levels in afghanistan to 5,000 , saying the bundeswehr was already performing a " central role " in the country , and that the troop increase would further improve germany 's image .
germany is currently the third largest contributor to the isaf mission in terms of troop numbers , behind only the us and the uk .
a total of roughly 130,000 isaf soldiers are serving in afghanistan .
author : hardy graupner -lrb- msh -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opinion : is nato withdrawal from afghanistan by 2014 realistic ?
nato confirmed at its summit in lisbon that it wanted to pull out of afghanistan by the end of 2014 , leaving the afghan security forces in control .
but deutsche welle 's ratbil shamel is skeptical about this aim .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nato to withdraw from afghanistan by 2014 nato nations have approved a plan to start pulling out front-line troops in afghanistan early in 2011 .
however , forces will remain in the most dangerous areas until 2014 , and likely stay in a supporting role beyond then .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- expert pleads for delinking of civilian , military operations in afghanistan europeans should argue for decoupling civilian from military operations in afghanistan at the upcoming nato summit , the head of the eu institute of security studies tells deutsche welle .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit die woche we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says aids epidemic is easing off slightly , but the suffering persists -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 23.11.2010 un says aids epidemic is easing off slightly , but the suffering persists großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : united nations statistics show that deaths from aids and the rates of new hiv infections are declining .
but for people living with hiv , the stigma , discrimination and the adverse impact of bad legislation continues . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic our correspondent imogen foulkes reports from geneva .
9798 dw-tv europe live hin & weg - das reisemagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
un says aids epidemic is easing off slightly , but the suffering persists -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 23.11.2010 un says aids epidemic is easing off slightly , but the suffering persists großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : united nations statistics show that deaths from aids and the rates of new hiv infections are declining .
but for people living with hiv , the stigma , discrimination and the adverse impact of bad legislation continues . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic our correspondent imogen foulkes reports from geneva .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit reporter we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
police overworked and increasingly at risk , says new union chief -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 23.11.2010 police overworked and increasingly at risk , says new union chief großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police are often spread too thinly in germany a day after being elected as the new head of the german police workers ' union , bernhard witthaut said german police are spread too thin , overworked and increasingly at risk . bernhard witthaut , the newly-elected head of germany 's police workers union , had not even been in office for a full day before drawing attention to the overworked state of germany 's police force .
on monday , witthaut was elected by his colleagues at a national meeting of the police union to lead the organization , and tuesday morning , witthaut gave an interview with german public radio outlining some of the problems facing german police .
" in light of recent terror warnings and also situations where a large contingent of police has been necessary , we have reached the limits of our capacities , " witthaut said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : witthaut says police have reached their limits in recent weeks , security scares related to failed parcel bombs and media reports outlining a " bloodbath " massacre at the german parliament building has led the interior ministry to increase the presence of security forces at large gatherings and public transportation hubs .
last legs large-scale demonstrations have also required additional a heightened security presence .
the recent transport of nuclear waste to the gorleben storage facility in northern germany came with a price tag of around 50 million euros for security needed to clear protestors out of the way of the transport containers .
in september , demonstrations against a planned train station renovation project in stuttgart made headlines when police and protestors clashed violently .
meanwhile , cuts to police forces and hiring freezes in many states have led to police resources being spread too thin , said witthaut .
" they 're really on their last legs , " he said of germany 's police officers .
political scapegoats christian pfeiffer , director of the criminology research institute of lower saxony , says the current political situation in germany is n't making things any easier for police officers .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police action in stuttgart has been widely criticized " it 's a new problem that the police have to iron out difficulties when political decisions are made without adequate justification or explanation , " pfeiffer told deutsche welle .
" the police are turned into scapegoats when politicians make mistakes with the transparency of their decisions . "
terror warnings issued by the interior ministry , such as the one last week calling on german citizens to remain alert but not to panic , are sometimes vague .
the glass cupola of the german parliament building was recently closed to visitors after media reports of a planned terror attack there , but the government insisted it was all precautionary and would not confirm or deny the media reports .
" even here , there is no transparency , " said pfeiffer .
" it 's not clear if this is really necessary or if this is just a demonstration by the internal security politicians to show they have everything under control . "
risk of violence adding to the stress in a police officer 's life is the growing trend of violence against police .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many police were needed to clear the way to gorleben this has been a subject of debate in german media and the police workers union for some time , but a 2010 study authored by pfeiffer at the criminal research institute has supported these speculations with concrete facts .
the study surveyed over 20,000 police officers in ten german states about violence they encountered on the job in the last five years .
pfeiffer said instances where an officer had to be taken off the job for at least seven days because of injuries sustained due to violence on the job had grown by 60 percent .
" someone who is stressed is less likely to react appropriately in a conflict situation than they normally would , " said pfeiffer .
" the risk - also due to being overworked - of sustaining a serious injury increases for that reason . "
use of bundeswehr troops one solution floated by klaus jansen , head of the association of german criminologists , is to use bundeswehr soldiers in a supporting role with police .
" we have to assume , that the exceptional use of additional police because of the current threat of terrorism will continue well into next year , " jansen said in an interview with the neue osnabruecker zeitung newspaper .
using bundeswehr troops to support normal police presents a legal question - it would require an amendment to the german constitution - but christian pfeiffer thinks there is a better solution .
he says if criminality - not a lack of resources or overburdened police officers - was addressed at a political level and could be reduced , then the current level of police officers in germany would be adequate for them to properly do their job .
pfeiffer thinks bundeswehr troops should - as they have in the past - only be used to support police in emergency situations such as floods .
author : matt zuvela editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warned that some dangers were being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nuclear waste shipment continues to spark determined protests the train shipment of nuclear waste to a storage site in northern germany has sparked massive protests and blockades .
the last stretch is to be completed on tuesday by trucks , but activists have vowed to block the way .
-lrb- 08.11.2010 -rrb- police use water cannons , tear gas on stuttgart train station opponents opponents of stuttgart 's planned train station renovation project have clashed with police in the city 's schlossgarten park , where 25 trees are to be cut down in connection with the project .
-lrb- 30.09.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport - das deutsche musikmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : highlights from melt festival 2011 !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 23.11.2010 dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : buying kagawa was one of the smartest and cheapest things dortmund have done " money scores goals " - so the old football cliche .
but while some pricey transfers have yet to yield dividends , players acquired for relatively little or nothing at all have been setting german soccer on fire . 350,000 euros is a fair amount of a money - enough , for instance , to purchase a comfortable dwelling in a decent neighborhood in most european cities .
but it 's not sufficient to buy the top-scoring midfielder in a major european football league .
unless , of course , that player is shinji kagawa .
dortmund 's acquisition of the japanese whirlwind for the soccer equivalent of loose change has been one of the stories of the year .
but it 's actually fairly typical both of the dortmund squad overall and a topsy-turvy season in which bargains have outperformed big-name signings .
germany 's sportbild newspaper recently did some math and discovered that the dortmund side currently steamrolling the league cost the club less than one-sixth of what it paid for its 2002 squad , the last time dortmund won the bundesliga .
bildunterschrift : barrios ' value has shot through the roof from back to front , dortmund have been getting excellent returns on modest investments .
even the club 's top striker , lukas barrios , only cost 4.5 million euros -lrb- $ 6.2 million -rrb- in transfer fees , a pittance compared with the sums bayern munich paid for mario gomez -lrb- ca .
35 million euros -rrb- or schalke for klaas-jan huntelaar -lrb- 14 million -rrb- .
kagawa and barrios illustrate the impact that good scouting can have .
discovering new talent may be harder than opening up the purse strings to purchase established players ' services , but it 's a better way to improve a squad .
persistence pays off bildunterschrift : cisse was worth the wait for freiburg if barrios is a bargain , freiburg 's papiss demba cisse is nothing short of sensation .
in 29 games for the small southern german club , the senegalese striker has scored 16 goals .
the 1.5 million euros freiburg paid to acquire him from french club metz in the winter break last year may be the highest transfer sum in club history , but he 's been worth every cent .
by comparison , lukas podolski , who cost cologne 10 million , only has 6 goals in 40 matches .
freiburg were originally rebuffed by metz when they made their first bid for cisse at the start of last season .
but they hung tough in pursuit of the man they wanted , and their patience has been rewarded .
bildunterschrift : ya konan has given hanover reason to smile another steal has been hanover 's didier ya konan who came in at the beginning of last season from rosenborg trondheim for 500,000 euros .
his 12 goals in 31 matches does n't immediately take one 's breath away but consider how impotent hanover 's attack otherwise is .
since his arrival , hanover has n't earned a single point from the ten games in which ya konan has n't been able to play .
the ivorian striker was a key reason why hanover avoided relegation last season and are fourth in the table after thirteen rounds in this one .
the half-a-million hanover shelled out now seems like next to nothing .
but some other valuable contributors have in fact come even cheaper .
fabulous freebies bildunterschrift : in piszczek , dortmund got a good defender for nothing even better than unearthing bargains is finding players whose contracts are expiring and thus can be had free of transfer charges .
one increasingly important member of dortmund 's squad is right back lukasz piszczek , who forced the own goal in the 2-1 win over freiburg on saturday that kept the men in yellow 's winning streak alive .
the polish national got relegated with hertha berlin last season , but dortmund recognized his potential .
and after an initial period of adjustment , he 's established himself in a hard-to-fill position for a title-worthy squad .
another way , of course , to acquire quality is to borrow it .
mainz , of course , have done fantastically well with rising german star lewis holtby this year .
he 's actually under contract to schalke , who must be ruing the decision to send him off for a year of development he obviously does n't need .
the undisputed masters of the rent-a-talent game , though , are nuremberg .
the club , as they 're known , borrowed a quartet of players from bayern and hamburg last year and successfully avoided relegation .
bildunterschrift : schieber , right , has helped nuremberg keep an even keel this year , julian schieber from stuttgart and mehmet ekici from bayern have been key members of a squad that has kept a comfortable distance between themselves and the drop zone .
arguably , borrowing talent does little for a club 's medium-term development .
on the other hand , nuremberg are above schalke and stuttgart in the table , and mainz are better than everyone but dortmund .
so it 's hard to take them to task for temporarily acquiring some good players for free .
author : jefferson chase editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dortmund stay top , raul awakens to lead schalke bundesliga leaders borussia dortmund clinched a 2-1 win over freiburg to keep ahead at the top of the league standings .
the much-criticzed raul , meanwhile , hit a hat trick as schalke demolished bremen 4-0 .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- germany coach loew taps young dortmund talent for sweden friendly the mercurial rise of youthful dortmund in the bundesliga has not gone unnoticed .
for wednesday 's match , germany 's coach has called up a quartet of dortmunders .
some may being staying in the national squad .
-lrb- 16.11.2010 -rrb- dortmund widen first-place bundesliga lead with victory against hamburg after goals from shinji kagawa and lucas barrios , dortmund managed to shut out opponents hamburg in friday 's lone bundesliga football match , keeping the team at the top of the table .
-lrb- 12.11.2010 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 23.11.2010 dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : buying kagawa was one of the smartest and cheapest things dortmund have done " money scores goals " - so the old football cliche .
but while some pricey transfers have yet to yield dividends , players acquired for relatively little or nothing at all have been setting german soccer on fire . 350,000 euros is a fair amount of a money - enough , for instance , to purchase a comfortable dwelling in a decent neighborhood in most european cities .
but it 's not sufficient to buy the top-scoring midfielder in a major european football league .
unless , of course , that player is shinji kagawa .
dortmund 's acquisition of the japanese whirlwind for the soccer equivalent of loose change has been one of the stories of the year .
but it 's actually fairly typical both of the dortmund squad overall and a topsy-turvy season in which bargains have outperformed big-name signings .
germany 's sportbild newspaper recently did some math and discovered that the dortmund side currently steamrolling the league cost the club less than one-sixth of what it paid for its 2002 squad , the last time dortmund won the bundesliga .
bildunterschrift : barrios ' value has shot through the roof from back to front , dortmund have been getting excellent returns on modest investments .
even the club 's top striker , lukas barrios , only cost 4.5 million euros -lrb- $ 6.2 million -rrb- in transfer fees , a pittance compared with the sums bayern munich paid for mario gomez -lrb- ca .
35 million euros -rrb- or schalke for klaas-jan huntelaar -lrb- 14 million -rrb- .
kagawa and barrios illustrate the impact that good scouting can have .
discovering new talent may be harder than opening up the purse strings to purchase established players ' services , but it 's a better way to improve a squad .
persistence pays off bildunterschrift : cisse was worth the wait for freiburg if barrios is a bargain , freiburg 's papiss demba cisse is nothing short of sensation .
in 29 games for the small southern german club , the senegalese striker has scored 16 goals .
the 1.5 million euros freiburg paid to acquire him from french club metz in the winter break last year may be the highest transfer sum in club history , but he 's been worth every cent .
by comparison , lukas podolski , who cost cologne 10 million , only has 6 goals in 40 matches .
freiburg were originally rebuffed by metz when they made their first bid for cisse at the start of last season .
but they hung tough in pursuit of the man they wanted , and their patience has been rewarded .
bildunterschrift : ya konan has given hanover reason to smile another steal has been hanover 's didier ya konan who came in at the beginning of last season from rosenborg trondheim for 500,000 euros .
his 12 goals in 31 matches does n't immediately take one 's breath away but consider how impotent hanover 's attack otherwise is .
since his arrival , hanover has n't earned a single point from the ten games in which ya konan has n't been able to play .
the ivorian striker was a key reason why hanover avoided relegation last season and are fourth in the table after thirteen rounds in this one .
the half-a-million hanover shelled out now seems like next to nothing .
but some other valuable contributors have in fact come even cheaper .
fabulous freebies bildunterschrift : in piszczek , dortmund got a good defender for nothing even better than unearthing bargains is finding players whose contracts are expiring and thus can be had free of transfer charges .
one increasingly important member of dortmund 's squad is right back lukasz piszczek , who forced the own goal in the 2-1 win over freiburg on saturday that kept the men in yellow 's winning streak alive .
the polish national got relegated with hertha berlin last season , but dortmund recognized his potential .
and after an initial period of adjustment , he 's established himself in a hard-to-fill position for a title-worthy squad .
another way , of course , to acquire quality is to borrow it .
mainz , of course , have done fantastically well with rising german star lewis holtby this year .
he 's actually under contract to schalke , who must be ruing the decision to send him off for a year of development he obviously does n't need .
the undisputed masters of the rent-a-talent game , though , are nuremberg .
the club , as they 're known , borrowed a quartet of players from bayern and hamburg last year and successfully avoided relegation .
bildunterschrift : schieber , right , has helped nuremberg keep an even keel this year , julian schieber from stuttgart and mehmet ekici from bayern have been key members of a squad that has kept a comfortable distance between themselves and the drop zone .
arguably , borrowing talent does little for a club 's medium-term development .
on the other hand , nuremberg are above schalke and stuttgart in the table , and mainz are better than everyone but dortmund .
so it 's hard to take them to task for temporarily acquiring some good players for free .
author : jefferson chase editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dortmund stay top , raul awakens to lead schalke bundesliga leaders borussia dortmund clinched a 2-1 win over freiburg to keep ahead at the top of the league standings .
the much-criticzed raul , meanwhile , hit a hat trick as schalke demolished bremen 4-0 .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- germany coach loew taps young dortmund talent for sweden friendly the mercurial rise of youthful dortmund in the bundesliga has not gone unnoticed .
for wednesday 's match , germany 's coach has called up a quartet of dortmunders .
some may being staying in the national squad .
-lrb- 16.11.2010 -rrb- dortmund widen first-place bundesliga lead with victory against hamburg after goals from shinji kagawa and lucas barrios , dortmund managed to shut out opponents hamburg in friday 's lone bundesliga football match , keeping the team at the top of the table .
-lrb- 12.11.2010 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - news with interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 23.11.2010 dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : buying kagawa was one of the smartest and cheapest things dortmund have done " money scores goals " - so the old football cliche .
but while some pricey transfers have yet to yield dividends , players acquired for relatively little or nothing at all have been setting german soccer on fire . 350,000 euros is a fair amount of a money - enough , for instance , to purchase a comfortable dwelling in a decent neighborhood in most european cities .
but it 's not sufficient to buy the top-scoring midfielder in a major european football league .
unless , of course , that player is shinji kagawa .
dortmund 's acquisition of the japanese whirlwind for the soccer equivalent of loose change has been one of the stories of the year .
but it 's actually fairly typical both of the dortmund squad overall and a topsy-turvy season in which bargains have outperformed big-name signings .
germany 's sportbild newspaper recently did some math and discovered that the dortmund side currently steamrolling the league cost the club less than one-sixth of what it paid for its 2002 squad , the last time dortmund won the bundesliga .
bildunterschrift : barrios ' value has shot through the roof from back to front , dortmund have been getting excellent returns on modest investments .
even the club 's top striker , lukas barrios , only cost 4.5 million euros -lrb- $ 6.2 million -rrb- in transfer fees , a pittance compared with the sums bayern munich paid for mario gomez -lrb- ca .
35 million euros -rrb- or schalke for klaas-jan huntelaar -lrb- 14 million -rrb- .
kagawa and barrios illustrate the impact that good scouting can have .
discovering new talent may be harder than opening up the purse strings to purchase established players ' services , but it 's a better way to improve a squad .
persistence pays off bildunterschrift : cisse was worth the wait for freiburg if barrios is a bargain , freiburg 's papiss demba cisse is nothing short of sensation .
in 29 games for the small southern german club , the senegalese striker has scored 16 goals .
the 1.5 million euros freiburg paid to acquire him from french club metz in the winter break last year may be the highest transfer sum in club history , but he 's been worth every cent .
by comparison , lukas podolski , who cost cologne 10 million , only has 6 goals in 40 matches .
freiburg were originally rebuffed by metz when they made their first bid for cisse at the start of last season .
but they hung tough in pursuit of the man they wanted , and their patience has been rewarded .
bildunterschrift : ya konan has given hanover reason to smile another steal has been hanover 's didier ya konan who came in at the beginning of last season from rosenborg trondheim for 500,000 euros .
his 12 goals in 31 matches does n't immediately take one 's breath away but consider how impotent hanover 's attack otherwise is .
since his arrival , hanover has n't earned a single point from the ten games in which ya konan has n't been able to play .
the ivorian striker was a key reason why hanover avoided relegation last season and are fourth in the table after thirteen rounds in this one .
the half-a-million hanover shelled out now seems like next to nothing .
but some other valuable contributors have in fact come even cheaper .
fabulous freebies bildunterschrift : in piszczek , dortmund got a good defender for nothing even better than unearthing bargains is finding players whose contracts are expiring and thus can be had free of transfer charges .
one increasingly important member of dortmund 's squad is right back lukasz piszczek , who forced the own goal in the 2-1 win over freiburg on saturday that kept the men in yellow 's winning streak alive .
the polish national got relegated with hertha berlin last season , but dortmund recognized his potential .
and after an initial period of adjustment , he 's established himself in a hard-to-fill position for a title-worthy squad .
another way , of course , to acquire quality is to borrow it .
mainz , of course , have done fantastically well with rising german star lewis holtby this year .
he 's actually under contract to schalke , who must be ruing the decision to send him off for a year of development he obviously does n't need .
the undisputed masters of the rent-a-talent game , though , are nuremberg .
the club , as they 're known , borrowed a quartet of players from bayern and hamburg last year and successfully avoided relegation .
bildunterschrift : schieber , right , has helped nuremberg keep an even keel this year , julian schieber from stuttgart and mehmet ekici from bayern have been key members of a squad that has kept a comfortable distance between themselves and the drop zone .
arguably , borrowing talent does little for a club 's medium-term development .
on the other hand , nuremberg are above schalke and stuttgart in the table , and mainz are better than everyone but dortmund .
so it 's hard to take them to task for temporarily acquiring some good players for free .
author : jefferson chase editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dortmund stay top , raul awakens to lead schalke bundesliga leaders borussia dortmund clinched a 2-1 win over freiburg to keep ahead at the top of the league standings .
the much-criticzed raul , meanwhile , hit a hat trick as schalke demolished bremen 4-0 .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- germany coach loew taps young dortmund talent for sweden friendly the mercurial rise of youthful dortmund in the bundesliga has not gone unnoticed .
for wednesday 's match , germany 's coach has called up a quartet of dortmunders .
some may being staying in the national squad .
-lrb- 16.11.2010 -rrb- dortmund widen first-place bundesliga lead with victory against hamburg after goals from shinji kagawa and lucas barrios , dortmund managed to shut out opponents hamburg in friday 's lone bundesliga football match , keeping the team at the top of the table .
-lrb- 12.11.2010 -rrb- feedback does money score goals ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
bundesliga picks dramatic finish three weeks to go and there 's still much to play for - and predict - in the bundesliga .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 23.11.2010 dortmund leads pack of bundesliga teams that are winning on the cheap großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : buying kagawa was one of the smartest and cheapest things dortmund have done " money scores goals " - so the old football cliche .
but while some pricey transfers have yet to yield dividends , players acquired for relatively little or nothing at all have been setting german soccer on fire . 350,000 euros is a fair amount of a money - enough , for instance , to purchase a comfortable dwelling in a decent neighborhood in most european cities .
but it 's not sufficient to buy the top-scoring midfielder in a major european football league .
unless , of course , that player is shinji kagawa .
dortmund 's acquisition of the japanese whirlwind for the soccer equivalent of loose change has been one of the stories of the year .
but it 's actually fairly typical both of the dortmund squad overall and a topsy-turvy season in which bargains have outperformed big-name signings .
germany 's sportbild newspaper recently did some math and discovered that the dortmund side currently steamrolling the league cost the club less than one-sixth of what it paid for its 2002 squad , the last time dortmund won the bundesliga .
bildunterschrift : barrios ' value has shot through the roof from back to front , dortmund have been getting excellent returns on modest investments .
even the club 's top striker , lukas barrios , only cost 4.5 million euros -lrb- $ 6.2 million -rrb- in transfer fees , a pittance compared with the sums bayern munich paid for mario gomez -lrb- ca .
35 million euros -rrb- or schalke for klaas-jan huntelaar -lrb- 14 million -rrb- .
kagawa and barrios illustrate the impact that good scouting can have .
discovering new talent may be harder than opening up the purse strings to purchase established players ' services , but it 's a better way to improve a squad .
persistence pays off bildunterschrift : cisse was worth the wait for freiburg if barrios is a bargain , freiburg 's papiss demba cisse is nothing short of sensation .
in 29 games for the small southern german club , the senegalese striker has scored 16 goals .
the 1.5 million euros freiburg paid to acquire him from french club metz in the winter break last year may be the highest transfer sum in club history , but he 's been worth every cent .
by comparison , lukas podolski , who cost cologne 10 million , only has 6 goals in 40 matches .
freiburg were originally rebuffed by metz when they made their first bid for cisse at the start of last season .
but they hung tough in pursuit of the man they wanted , and their patience has been rewarded .
bildunterschrift : ya konan has given hanover reason to smile another steal has been hanover 's didier ya konan who came in at the beginning of last season from rosenborg trondheim for 500,000 euros .
his 12 goals in 31 matches does n't immediately take one 's breath away but consider how impotent hanover 's attack otherwise is .
since his arrival , hanover has n't earned a single point from the ten games in which ya konan has n't been able to play .
the ivorian striker was a key reason why hanover avoided relegation last season and are fourth in the table after thirteen rounds in this one .
the half-a-million hanover shelled out now seems like next to nothing .
but some other valuable contributors have in fact come even cheaper .
fabulous freebies bildunterschrift : in piszczek , dortmund got a good defender for nothing even better than unearthing bargains is finding players whose contracts are expiring and thus can be had free of transfer charges .
one increasingly important member of dortmund 's squad is right back lukasz piszczek , who forced the own goal in the 2-1 win over freiburg on saturday that kept the men in yellow 's winning streak alive .
the polish national got relegated with hertha berlin last season , but dortmund recognized his potential .
and after an initial period of adjustment , he 's established himself in a hard-to-fill position for a title-worthy squad .
another way , of course , to acquire quality is to borrow it .
mainz , of course , have done fantastically well with rising german star lewis holtby this year .
he 's actually under contract to schalke , who must be ruing the decision to send him off for a year of development he obviously does n't need .
the undisputed masters of the rent-a-talent game , though , are nuremberg .
the club , as they 're known , borrowed a quartet of players from bayern and hamburg last year and successfully avoided relegation .
bildunterschrift : schieber , right , has helped nuremberg keep an even keel this year , julian schieber from stuttgart and mehmet ekici from bayern have been key members of a squad that has kept a comfortable distance between themselves and the drop zone .
arguably , borrowing talent does little for a club 's medium-term development .
on the other hand , nuremberg are above schalke and stuttgart in the table , and mainz are better than everyone but dortmund .
so it 's hard to take them to task for temporarily acquiring some good players for free .
author : jefferson chase editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de dortmund stay top , raul awakens to lead schalke bundesliga leaders borussia dortmund clinched a 2-1 win over freiburg to keep ahead at the top of the league standings .
the much-criticzed raul , meanwhile , hit a hat trick as schalke demolished bremen 4-0 .
-lrb- 20.11.2010 -rrb- germany coach loew taps young dortmund talent for sweden friendly the mercurial rise of youthful dortmund in the bundesliga has not gone unnoticed .
for wednesday 's match , germany 's coach has called up a quartet of dortmunders .
some may being staying in the national squad .
-lrb- 16.11.2010 -rrb- dortmund widen first-place bundesliga lead with victory against hamburg after goals from shinji kagawa and lucas barrios , dortmund managed to shut out opponents hamburg in friday 's lone bundesliga football match , keeping the team at the top of the table .
-lrb- 12.11.2010 -rrb- feedback does money score goals ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
death sentence puts pakistan 's blasphemy law in the spotlight -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 23.11.2010 death sentence puts pakistan 's blasphemy law in the spotlight großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : asia bibi 's family members are hoping for a presidential pardon pakistan 's opinion makers are engaged in a heated debate about the country 's blasphemy law after a 45-year-old christian woman was sentenced to death . pakistan 's blasphemy law has once again become a topic of heated discussion after the recent handing down of the death sentence to asia bibi .
the 45-year-old christian woman was arrested in june last year after her neighbors complained that she had made derogatory remarks about prophet mohammed .
blasphemy and lynch justice when it comes to blasphemy in the islamic republic of pakistan , the law is clear - it is a crime punishable by death to speak ill of islam and prophet mohammed .
although hundreds have been convicted of blasphemy , nobody in pakistan has ever been executed for the offence .
most convictions are retracted after the accused makes an appeal .
however , angry mobs have killed people accused of blasphemy .
in july this year , two christian brothers were gunned down in faisalabad after being accused of writing a sacrilegious letter against the prophet .
fareed ahmad pracha from the muslim movement jamaat i islami is an ardent defender of the blasphemy law .
" we have false murder cases in our country , false witnesses and it is possible that a case may be wrong , " he said . "
" we just want to say that the law should be enforced properly , there should not be any change made into the blasphemy law , we will not tolerate or accept this .
if you make way even for a single change in the law , then there will be a number of changes , whereas there has never been a case where anyone has been punished . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : there have been demonstrations for asia bibi all over the world , including in pakistan call for repeal of the law asia bibi ’ s sentencing to death has triggered an outcry among human rights groups and the international community .
some pakistani politicians have also called on the president to pardon asia bibi .
bibi herself has said that she was involved in a dispute after some women laborers she was in the fields with said they would not drink water from the same bowl because she was not a muslim .
she says they slapped her and pulled her hair .
they apparently later went to the police and accused her of making derogatory remarks about prophet mohammed .
sisal chaudhary , a local christian leader in pakistan , is angry about discrimination against the christian minority in pakistan .
" many innocent people have been killed , " he pointed out .
" people who did not even have a case registered against them .
how can you stop this ?
there is only one solution to this and that is for this law to be completely repealed .
many people have suffered , many settlements have been razed down because of this law , many people have spent 10 or 12 years in prison .
it is wrong to say that no one has been really killed because of this law .
now they want to start hanging people but they have been killing people for a long time . "
shahbaz bhatti , pakistan 's minister for minority affairs , has now been commissioned by president asif ali zardari to look into the case .
a christian himself , he has said it was a personal dispute and asia bibi did not commit blasphemy .
he is due to submit the findings of his report on wednesday .
author : manasi golapakrishnan editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- irish blasphemy law triggers protests blasphemy is now a crime in ireland punishable by a fine .
atheists and the osce have called on dublin to repeal the law as quickly as possible , but some countries , such as pakistan , think it is worth copying .
-lrb- 14.01.2010 -rrb- german-iranian author receives culture prize after religious row after a lot of controversy , the hessian culture prize 2009 has been presented .
one of the winners , navid kermani , received an official apology for being temporarily denied the award .
-lrb- 27.11.2009 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china exploding watermelons some beijing housewives grow vegetables at home because they do n't trust the market .
nuclear health scare a health scare hits japan as radioactive beef finds its way into supermarkets across the country .
music beijing love song five german exchange students have become stars in china after rapping a love song to the capital .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
death sentence puts pakistan 's blasphemy law in the spotlight -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 23.11.2010 death sentence puts pakistan 's blasphemy law in the spotlight großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : asia bibi 's family members are hoping for a presidential pardon pakistan 's opinion makers are engaged in a heated debate about the country 's blasphemy law after a 45-year-old christian woman was sentenced to death . pakistan 's blasphemy law has once again become a topic of heated discussion after the recent handing down of the death sentence to asia bibi .
the 45-year-old christian woman was arrested in june last year after her neighbors complained that she had made derogatory remarks about prophet mohammed .
blasphemy and lynch justice when it comes to blasphemy in the islamic republic of pakistan , the law is clear - it is a crime punishable by death to speak ill of islam and prophet mohammed .
although hundreds have been convicted of blasphemy , nobody in pakistan has ever been executed for the offence .
most convictions are retracted after the accused makes an appeal .
however , angry mobs have killed people accused of blasphemy .
in july this year , two christian brothers were gunned down in faisalabad after being accused of writing a sacrilegious letter against the prophet .
fareed ahmad pracha from the muslim movement jamaat i islami is an ardent defender of the blasphemy law .
" we have false murder cases in our country , false witnesses and it is possible that a case may be wrong , " he said . "
" we just want to say that the law should be enforced properly , there should not be any change made into the blasphemy law , we will not tolerate or accept this .
if you make way even for a single change in the law , then there will be a number of changes , whereas there has never been a case where anyone has been punished . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : there have been demonstrations for asia bibi all over the world , including in pakistan call for repeal of the law asia bibi ’ s sentencing to death has triggered an outcry among human rights groups and the international community .
some pakistani politicians have also called on the president to pardon asia bibi .
bibi herself has said that she was involved in a dispute after some women laborers she was in the fields with said they would not drink water from the same bowl because she was not a muslim .
she says they slapped her and pulled her hair .
they apparently later went to the police and accused her of making derogatory remarks about prophet mohammed .
sisal chaudhary , a local christian leader in pakistan , is angry about discrimination against the christian minority in pakistan .
" many innocent people have been killed , " he pointed out .
" people who did not even have a case registered against them .
how can you stop this ?
there is only one solution to this and that is for this law to be completely repealed .
many people have suffered , many settlements have been razed down because of this law , many people have spent 10 or 12 years in prison .
it is wrong to say that no one has been really killed because of this law .
now they want to start hanging people but they have been killing people for a long time . "
shahbaz bhatti , pakistan 's minister for minority affairs , has now been commissioned by president asif ali zardari to look into the case .
a christian himself , he has said it was a personal dispute and asia bibi did not commit blasphemy .
he is due to submit the findings of his report on wednesday .
author : manasi golapakrishnan editor : anne thomas send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de women 's rights languish in mali popular opposition is holding back a new family law in mali aimed at promoting equal rights for women .
critics accuse mali 's president of failing to communicate the benefits of the law , and opening a rift in society .
-lrb- 08.03.2010 -rrb- irish blasphemy law triggers protests blasphemy is now a crime in ireland punishable by a fine .
atheists and the osce have called on dublin to repeal the law as quickly as possible , but some countries , such as pakistan , think it is worth copying .
-lrb- 14.01.2010 -rrb- german-iranian author receives culture prize after religious row after a lot of controversy , the hessian culture prize 2009 has been presented .
one of the winners , navid kermani , received an official apology for being temporarily denied the award .
-lrb- 27.11.2009 -rrb- 9798 global media forum human rights in a globalized world - challenges for the media listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 20.06.11 us officials seek dialogue with the taliban freeing vietnam from agent orange ' petro islam ' in bangladesh podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile afghanistan us officials have started preliminary talks with the taliban .
thomas ruttig of the afghanistan analysts network on the status of talks security china is closing down tibet to foreign tourists before the 90th anniversary of the communist party .
phelim kine of human rights watch on the chinese government 's attitude and its consequences .
indonesia investment chief gita wiryawan speaks about scope for investment in indonesia fukushima japan tepco bailout japan 's cabinet agrees to help tepco to pay compensation to fukushima victims .
women living in fear a new poll lists afghanistan , india and pakistan as the most dangerous countries for women . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 30.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think google street view is intrusive ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think google street view is intrusive ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think google street view is intrusive ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards voting is underway at the bobs - deutsche welle 's annual blog contest .
cast your ballot social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 23.11.2010 wayward google fans pelt houses with eggs großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : germany required google to allow people to blur their houses in street view in an apparent show of support for google , several houses in essen were pelted with eggs over the weekend .
the vandals singled out houses which were blurred in the company 's street view service . less than a week after google launched street view in germany , the company has received some unsolicited support for its controversial service .
on saturday , vandals in the bergerhausen area of essen , in western germany , threw eggs at several houses which are blurred out in street view .
members of the german government and local activists had cited privacy concerns in insisting google give property owners the right to have their addresses blurred out .
the service allows for a panoramic , highly-detailed view of city streets .
not only did the amateur hit squad pelt the houses with eggs , they also taped notes stating , " google 's cool , " to their mailboxes , according to local media reports .
a spokesperson for the essen police department said the incident was booked as a case of property damage , although little was damaged .
" we 'll see if there were witnesses , " he told deutsche welle .
" we do n't yet have any leads pointing to a perpetrator . "
lena wagner , a google spokeswoman said the company " distances itself completely " from people such as the egg throwers in bergerhausen .
" we 've clearly given people the possibility to blur out their house , and naturally we respect their wishes , " she told deutsche welle .
" those people who want to make use of the function should do so . "
author : gerhard schneibel editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de google launches street view across 20 german cities following much controversy , highly detailed street-level photographs are now available in berlin , cologne , hannover and beyond .
but google remains under investigation for potential street view privacy violations .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- focus : debate surrounds google 's plans for street view in germany as the deadline for people in germany to blur images of their homes from google street view arrives , deutsche welle takes an in-depth look at the arguments for and against the service .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- why oberstaufen , a southern german town , supports google street view in a dw interview , bianca keybach of oberstaufen explains why her town welcomes google , and thinks that many of the fears against the service are irrational .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
german jewish leader receives major honor -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de religion -pipe- 23.11.2010 german jewish leader receives major honor großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : knobloch survived the holocaust as a child in germany the outgoing president of germany 's central council of jews in germany , charlotte knobloch , has been awarded the large federal cross of merit with star , one of the highest honors available in germany . german president christian wulff gave one of the highest orders of merit available to the country 's jewish leader on tuesday , praising charlotte knobloch and her term of over four years at the head of the central council of jews in germany .
" we are honoring a woman of whom our entire country can be proud , and who is therefore receiving one of this country 's particularly high honors - along with our gratitude and admiration , " the german president said at the ceremony in berlin .
knobloch , 78 , survived the nazi era as a child , hiding with a sympathetic german family .
she has held several leading positions in the german jewish community since the 1980s , and took over from paul spiegel as the president of the central council for jews in 2006 .
" it 's thanks to people like charlotte knobloch , that there is such a thing as reconciliation ; that we were able to set off on a path towards a new collective life , a new normality .
we will continue along that path . "
knobloch has been awarded the large federal cross of merit with star , one of the highest orders available to civilians in germany .
" last eyewitness to leave " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wulff said all of germany could be proud of knobloch 's achievements knobloch will not stand for reelection when the central council for jews votes on a new president on november , 28 ; former vice president dieter graumann is considered her likely replacement .
graumann , born in israel in 1950 , would be the first post-war german jewish leader not to have lived through the holocaust .
" with the departure of charlotte knobloch , the last eyewitness will be leaving the presidential office at the central council for jews .
that is certainly a break with history in german jewish culture , " president wulff said in his speech honoring knobloch .
" but this change will not mean that anything is forgotten .
we all well know the obligations we have , not just to the victims of the past , but also to our future offspring . "
knobloch also discussed this prospect in a recent interview with the mannheimer morgen newspaper , but agreed that there was no danger of the holocaust being forgotten in germany .
" the next generation has still grown up with the history of the holocaust , even if we -lrb- german society -rrb- did n't really talk about it for decades , " knobloch said .
" nowadays , jews are accepted in the mainstream of german society , something that for decades was not the case . "
one of the issues on which knobloch concentrated during her term in office was the integration of jewish immigrants from the former soviet union , a fast-growing group with increasing influence in germany 's jewish community .
wulff told knobloch in the ceremony that the large federal cross of merit with star symbolized germany 's enduring gratitude for - and commitment to - her life 's work .
author : mark hallam -lrb- apn , dpa -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de being honored by the fatherland : germany 's federal cross of merit where the uk has its knighthood , and france its legion of honour , germany rewards its loyal citizens with the federal cross of merit .
its most famous recent recipient was the national soccer team coach joachim loew .
-lrb- 07.08.2010 -rrb- central council for jews in germany celebrates 60 successful years the central council for jews in germany was founded on july 19 , 1950 .
since then it has built up a jewish community of over 100,000 in germany and has been a leading moral voice when it comes to the country 's nazi past .
-lrb- 19.07.2010 -rrb- german jews ordain first female rabbi since world war ii for the first time since 1935 , germany 's jewish community has ordained a female rabbi .
alina treiger , 31 , will have the same rights and responsibilities as her male colleagues .
-lrb- 04.11.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - highlights of the week we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
terror suspects arrested in belgium , netherlands and germany -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de terrorism -pipe- 23.11.2010 terror suspects arrested in belgium , netherlands and germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : dozens were arrested police in belgium , the netherlands and germany have arrested at least 10 islamists suspected of plotting an attack in belgium .
another 15 were arrested for allegedly recruiting insurgents for iraq and afghanistan . police in belgium and neighboring countries carried out two separate anti-terror raids on tuesday , arresting at least 25 people .
federal prosecutors in belgium first announced the arrests of at least 10 islamists suspected of plotting an attack on an unknown target in belgium .
" ten belgian , dutch , moroccan and russian nationals have been arrested , " a spokesman for the belgian prosecutor 's office said on tuesday .
the russian nationals were of chechen origin , he said .
one of those russians has been detained in the western german city of aachen , close to the dutch border .
the others were arrested in belgium 's second city antwerp and in the dutch capital amsterdam .
extremist websites under scrutiny the group used the extremist website ansar al mujahideen , according to the prosecutors .
the target has not been determined yet .
" there 's also a website called sharia for belgium , which is dedicated to people who have motive to launch some kind of attack on belgium specifically , " deutsche welle 's brussels correspondent vanessa mock said . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : security measures have been stepped up across germany " but at the moment we do n't know exactly how those websites feed into those groups , " she added .
the arrests followed a months-long investigation initiated by the belgian authorities in late 2009 in cooperation with its european neighbors and the eu 's judicial cooperation unit eurojust .
the target of the attack is not known , but " they believe it might have been on antwerp , seeing as the bulk of the arrests were made there .
it has n't been confirmed , but that 's where the houses were raided , " mock said .
at least 15 arrested in later raids later on tuesday evening , belgian prosecutors announced at least 15 further arrests , made as part of an unrelated set of property searches in brussels .
this second probe was investigating an iraq and afghanistan war recruitment drive , and a spokeswoman for the prosecutor 's office said that " about 15 people " were detained .
belgian authorities said the raids were the culmination of a three year investigation into a belgian islamic center , conducted with the cooperation of foreign police services .
some of the people arrested are suspected members of a group that has been trying to recruit people to go and fight for the afghan and iraqi insurgencies .
no connection to german terror alert but germany 's interior ministry said on tuesday that the belgian arrests had nothing to do with the current situation in germany , where security measures have been stepped up because of intelligence suggesting a terror attack may be on the cards .
even the first set of arrests , one of which was made in germany , was not thought to be connected to the terror warnings from berlin .
" these are measures taken by the belgian authorities , based on evidence suggesting that young belgians are being recruited for the islamist separatist fight in chechnya , " stefan paris , spokesman for the german interior ministry said on tuesday .
the dutch authorities also said that tuesday 's arrests were not connected to the situation in germany .
author : nicole goebel , mark hallam -lrb- dpa , afp , reuters -rrb- editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warned that some dangers were being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- german interior ministers acknowledge terror threat , call for calm germany 's interior ministers have called on citizens to continue living their lives as before , in the face of recent terror threats .
on the same day , in namibia , a suspected bomb was found on a plane headed for munich .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- germany steps up security on news of planned terror attack germany announces stepped up security in light of information that terrorists may be planning an attack in the country for late november .
security is to be increased at all airports and train stations .
-lrb- 17.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic at least ten suspects arrested in belgian terror plot .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live global 3000 - das globalisierungsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : the latest from germany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art the czech state rushes artwork out of a german museum in light of a potential legal issue .
watch the video poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video reader response austerity avoidance as anti-austerity riots continue in debt-stricken greece , readers consider the country 's options .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
police overworked and increasingly at risk , says new union chief -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de security -pipe- 23.11.2010 police overworked and increasingly at risk , says new union chief großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police are often spread too thinly in germany a day after being elected as the new head of the german police workers ' union , bernhard witthaut said german police are spread too thin , overworked and increasingly at risk . bernhard witthaut , the newly-elected head of germany 's police workers union , had not even been in office for a full day before drawing attention to the overworked state of germany 's police force .
on monday , witthaut was elected by his colleagues at a national meeting of the police union to lead the organization , and tuesday morning , witthaut gave an interview with german public radio outlining some of the problems facing german police .
" in light of recent terror warnings and also situations where a large contingent of police has been necessary , we have reached the limits of our capacities , " witthaut said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : witthaut says police have reached their limits in recent weeks , security scares related to failed parcel bombs and media reports outlining a " bloodbath " massacre at the german parliament building has led the interior ministry to increase the presence of security forces at large gatherings and public transportation hubs .
last legs large-scale demonstrations have also required additional a heightened security presence .
the recent transport of nuclear waste to the gorleben storage facility in northern germany came with a price tag of around 50 million euros for security needed to clear protestors out of the way of the transport containers .
in september , demonstrations against a planned train station renovation project in stuttgart made headlines when police and protestors clashed violently .
meanwhile , cuts to police forces and hiring freezes in many states have led to police resources being spread too thin , said witthaut .
" they 're really on their last legs , " he said of germany 's police officers .
political scapegoats christian pfeiffer , director of the criminology research institute of lower saxony , says the current political situation in germany is n't making things any easier for police officers .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : police action in stuttgart has been widely criticized " it 's a new problem that the police have to iron out difficulties when political decisions are made without adequate justification or explanation , " pfeiffer told deutsche welle .
" the police are turned into scapegoats when politicians make mistakes with the transparency of their decisions . "
terror warnings issued by the interior ministry , such as the one last week calling on german citizens to remain alert but not to panic , are sometimes vague .
the glass cupola of the german parliament building was recently closed to visitors after media reports of a planned terror attack there , but the government insisted it was all precautionary and would not confirm or deny the media reports .
" even here , there is no transparency , " said pfeiffer .
" it 's not clear if this is really necessary or if this is just a demonstration by the internal security politicians to show they have everything under control . "
risk of violence adding to the stress in a police officer 's life is the growing trend of violence against police .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many police were needed to clear the way to gorleben this has been a subject of debate in german media and the police workers union for some time , but a 2010 study authored by pfeiffer at the criminal research institute has supported these speculations with concrete facts .
the study surveyed over 20,000 police officers in ten german states about violence they encountered on the job in the last five years .
pfeiffer said instances where an officer had to be taken off the job for at least seven days because of injuries sustained due to violence on the job had grown by 60 percent .
" someone who is stressed is less likely to react appropriately in a conflict situation than they normally would , " said pfeiffer .
" the risk - also due to being overworked - of sustaining a serious injury increases for that reason . "
use of bundeswehr troops one solution floated by klaus jansen , head of the association of german criminologists , is to use bundeswehr soldiers in a supporting role with police .
" we have to assume , that the exceptional use of additional police because of the current threat of terrorism will continue well into next year , " jansen said in an interview with the neue osnabruecker zeitung newspaper .
using bundeswehr troops to support normal police presents a legal question - it would require an amendment to the german constitution - but christian pfeiffer thinks there is a better solution .
he says if criminality - not a lack of resources or overburdened police officers - was addressed at a political level and could be reduced , then the current level of police officers in germany would be adequate for them to properly do their job .
pfeiffer thinks bundeswehr troops should - as they have in the past - only be used to support police in emergency situations such as floods .
author : matt zuvela editor : andreas illmer send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de reichstag dome closed to public after terror warnings amid heightened concern about a possible terror attack on german soil , the glass dome of the country 's parliament has been closed to the public .
politicians warned that some dangers were being overstated .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- nuclear waste shipment continues to spark determined protests the train shipment of nuclear waste to a storage site in northern germany has sparked massive protests and blockades .
the last stretch is to be completed on tuesday by trucks , but activists have vowed to block the way .
-lrb- 08.11.2010 -rrb- police use water cannons , tear gas on stuttgart train station opponents opponents of stuttgart 's planned train station renovation project have clashed with police in the city 's schlossgarten park , where 25 trees are to be cut down in connection with the project .
-lrb- 30.09.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 23.11.2010 ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cowen has come under pressure from all sides irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf . ireland 's prime minister brian cowen pulled the country out of the frying pan of debt on sunday , only to find himself plunged into the fire of a snap election on monday .
after securing a financial rescue believed to be worth up to 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- in loans from the european union and the international monetary fund , the fianna fail party leader was forced to promise early elections as his political friends and enemies both turned on him .
" it is my intention at the conclusion of the budgetary process , with the enactment of the necessary legislation in the new year , to then seek the dissolution of parliament , " prime minister brian cowen told reporters in a hastily-called press conference .
cowen was effectively yielding to his government 's junior coalition partners , the greens , who called for elections in january , although he did n't promise that they would be held in that month .
the two main opposition parties , labour and fine gael , had demanded an immediate dissolution of parliament instead .
" what is needed now is an immediate general election so that a new government , with a clear parliamentary majority , can prepare the four-year economic plan , complete negotiations with the eu and imf and frame a budget for 2011 , " fine gael leader enda kenny wrote in an e-mailed statement .
first things first bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland requested help with its runaway debts on sunday cowen 's government is set to publish a four-year economic plan on wednesday and a new , cost-cutting budget on december 7 - a process that is crucial to secure loan payments from the eu and imf .
cowen said these processes would have to be completed before the dissolution of parliament , so as to protect ireland from financial collapse .
the junior coalition partners , the greens , pledged to support the government only until january ; party leader john gormley called on cowen to name a date for elections in the new year , saying the irish people needed " political certainty " and had been " misled and betrayed " by the prime minister 's cabinet .
for about a week , ireland had insisted that it could recover its economy without outside help , but caved in on sunday and requested a bailout from the eu and imf , following in the footsteps of greece earlier this year .
the country faces a budget deficit of 32 percent of gross domestic product , a figure which has ballooned because of the government bailout of its largest moneylender , anglo-irish bank .
even without this extra expense , the country 's 2010 shortfall would have comfortably exceeded the eu 's prescribed limit of 3 percent of gdp .
tough sell for european leaders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel may struggle to convince her party and her people that germany should foot part of the irish bill german chancellor angela merkel said on monday that the irish rescue was " positive overall , " because under the terms of the new deal , dublin would be forced to obey terms set by the eu and imf .
merkel said the rescue package was necessary to stabilize the european single currency , the euro .
a similar loan package for greece earlier this year , the first of its kind , was particularly unpopular in germany , not least among merkel 's conservative christian democratic union .
britain 's cash-strapped government , which is implementing its own series of tough austerity measures , also came under fire for contributing to the irish rescue , but the government defended the action .
" ireland is a friend in need , and we are here to help , " the conservative chancellor of the exchequer , george osborne said .
also on monday , the credit ratings agency moody 's said it would probably downgrade ireland 's sovereign debt by several notches in light of the eu-imf rescue .
author : mark hallam -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- eu agrees bailout for ireland eu finance ministers have agreed on a bailout fund for ireland to tackle the country 's huge budget deficit and save its banking sector .
it 's the second eu bailout package this year .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- germany denies pressuring ireland over business tax a german government spokesman said ireland should be allowed to determine its own corporation tax rate , despite recent pressure from a senior finance expert in chancellor angela merkel 's party .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic what is the real price of aid for ireland 's government ? -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- the people of ireland face tough times -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- how the rescue package works -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live kino - the german film magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : the latest from germany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art glass art has been made on the island of murano for centuries , but it still has an exciting future .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 23.11.2010 ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cowen has come under pressure from all sides irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf . ireland 's prime minister brian cowen pulled the country out of the frying pan of debt on sunday , only to find himself plunged into the fire of a snap election on monday .
after securing a financial rescue believed to be worth up to 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- in loans from the european union and the international monetary fund , the fianna fail party leader was forced to promise early elections as his political friends and enemies both turned on him .
" it is my intention at the conclusion of the budgetary process , with the enactment of the necessary legislation in the new year , to then seek the dissolution of parliament , " prime minister brian cowen told reporters in a hastily-called press conference .
cowen was effectively yielding to his government 's junior coalition partners , the greens , who called for elections in january , although he did n't promise that they would be held in that month .
the two main opposition parties , labour and fine gael , had demanded an immediate dissolution of parliament instead .
" what is needed now is an immediate general election so that a new government , with a clear parliamentary majority , can prepare the four-year economic plan , complete negotiations with the eu and imf and frame a budget for 2011 , " fine gael leader enda kenny wrote in an e-mailed statement .
first things first bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland requested help with its runaway debts on sunday cowen 's government is set to publish a four-year economic plan on wednesday and a new , cost-cutting budget on december 7 - a process that is crucial to secure loan payments from the eu and imf .
cowen said these processes would have to be completed before the dissolution of parliament , so as to protect ireland from financial collapse .
the junior coalition partners , the greens , pledged to support the government only until january ; party leader john gormley called on cowen to name a date for elections in the new year , saying the irish people needed " political certainty " and had been " misled and betrayed " by the prime minister 's cabinet .
for about a week , ireland had insisted that it could recover its economy without outside help , but caved in on sunday and requested a bailout from the eu and imf , following in the footsteps of greece earlier this year .
the country faces a budget deficit of 32 percent of gross domestic product , a figure which has ballooned because of the government bailout of its largest moneylender , anglo-irish bank .
even without this extra expense , the country 's 2010 shortfall would have comfortably exceeded the eu 's prescribed limit of 3 percent of gdp .
tough sell for european leaders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel may struggle to convince her party and her people that germany should foot part of the irish bill german chancellor angela merkel said on monday that the irish rescue was " positive overall , " because under the terms of the new deal , dublin would be forced to obey terms set by the eu and imf .
merkel said the rescue package was necessary to stabilize the european single currency , the euro .
a similar loan package for greece earlier this year , the first of its kind , was particularly unpopular in germany , not least among merkel 's conservative christian democratic union .
britain 's cash-strapped government , which is implementing its own series of tough austerity measures , also came under fire for contributing to the irish rescue , but the government defended the action .
" ireland is a friend in need , and we are here to help , " the conservative chancellor of the exchequer , george osborne said .
also on monday , the credit ratings agency moody 's said it would probably downgrade ireland 's sovereign debt by several notches in light of the eu-imf rescue .
author : mark hallam -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- eu agrees bailout for ireland eu finance ministers have agreed on a bailout fund for ireland to tackle the country 's huge budget deficit and save its banking sector .
it 's the second eu bailout package this year .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- germany denies pressuring ireland over business tax a german government spokesman said ireland should be allowed to determine its own corporation tax rate , despite recent pressure from a senior finance expert in chancellor angela merkel 's party .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic what is the real price of aid for ireland 's government ? -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- the people of ireland face tough times -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- how the rescue package works -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- feedback has cowen made the right move , and did he have a choice ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 23.11.2010 ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cowen has come under pressure from all sides irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf . ireland 's prime minister brian cowen pulled the country out of the frying pan of debt on sunday , only to find himself plunged into the fire of a snap election on monday .
after securing a financial rescue believed to be worth up to 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- in loans from the european union and the international monetary fund , the fianna fail party leader was forced to promise early elections as his political friends and enemies both turned on him .
" it is my intention at the conclusion of the budgetary process , with the enactment of the necessary legislation in the new year , to then seek the dissolution of parliament , " prime minister brian cowen told reporters in a hastily-called press conference .
cowen was effectively yielding to his government 's junior coalition partners , the greens , who called for elections in january , although he did n't promise that they would be held in that month .
the two main opposition parties , labour and fine gael , had demanded an immediate dissolution of parliament instead .
" what is needed now is an immediate general election so that a new government , with a clear parliamentary majority , can prepare the four-year economic plan , complete negotiations with the eu and imf and frame a budget for 2011 , " fine gael leader enda kenny wrote in an e-mailed statement .
first things first bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland requested help with its runaway debts on sunday cowen 's government is set to publish a four-year economic plan on wednesday and a new , cost-cutting budget on december 7 - a process that is crucial to secure loan payments from the eu and imf .
cowen said these processes would have to be completed before the dissolution of parliament , so as to protect ireland from financial collapse .
the junior coalition partners , the greens , pledged to support the government only until january ; party leader john gormley called on cowen to name a date for elections in the new year , saying the irish people needed " political certainty " and had been " misled and betrayed " by the prime minister 's cabinet .
for about a week , ireland had insisted that it could recover its economy without outside help , but caved in on sunday and requested a bailout from the eu and imf , following in the footsteps of greece earlier this year .
the country faces a budget deficit of 32 percent of gross domestic product , a figure which has ballooned because of the government bailout of its largest moneylender , anglo-irish bank .
even without this extra expense , the country 's 2010 shortfall would have comfortably exceeded the eu 's prescribed limit of 3 percent of gdp .
tough sell for european leaders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel may struggle to convince her party and her people that germany should foot part of the irish bill german chancellor angela merkel said on monday that the irish rescue was " positive overall , " because under the terms of the new deal , dublin would be forced to obey terms set by the eu and imf .
merkel said the rescue package was necessary to stabilize the european single currency , the euro .
a similar loan package for greece earlier this year , the first of its kind , was particularly unpopular in germany , not least among merkel 's conservative christian democratic union .
britain 's cash-strapped government , which is implementing its own series of tough austerity measures , also came under fire for contributing to the irish rescue , but the government defended the action .
" ireland is a friend in need , and we are here to help , " the conservative chancellor of the exchequer , george osborne said .
also on monday , the credit ratings agency moody 's said it would probably downgrade ireland 's sovereign debt by several notches in light of the eu-imf rescue .
author : mark hallam -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- eu agrees bailout for ireland eu finance ministers have agreed on a bailout fund for ireland to tackle the country 's huge budget deficit and save its banking sector .
it 's the second eu bailout package this year .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- germany denies pressuring ireland over business tax a german government spokesman said ireland should be allowed to determine its own corporation tax rate , despite recent pressure from a senior finance expert in chancellor angela merkel 's party .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic what is the real price of aid for ireland 's government ? -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- the people of ireland face tough times -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- how the rescue package works -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- feedback has cowen made the right move , and did he have a choice ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 23.11.2010 ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cowen has come under pressure from all sides irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf . ireland 's prime minister brian cowen pulled the country out of the frying pan of debt on sunday , only to find himself plunged into the fire of a snap election on monday .
after securing a financial rescue believed to be worth up to 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- in loans from the european union and the international monetary fund , the fianna fail party leader was forced to promise early elections as his political friends and enemies both turned on him .
" it is my intention at the conclusion of the budgetary process , with the enactment of the necessary legislation in the new year , to then seek the dissolution of parliament , " prime minister brian cowen told reporters in a hastily-called press conference .
cowen was effectively yielding to his government 's junior coalition partners , the greens , who called for elections in january , although he did n't promise that they would be held in that month .
the two main opposition parties , labour and fine gael , had demanded an immediate dissolution of parliament instead .
" what is needed now is an immediate general election so that a new government , with a clear parliamentary majority , can prepare the four-year economic plan , complete negotiations with the eu and imf and frame a budget for 2011 , " fine gael leader enda kenny wrote in an e-mailed statement .
first things first bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland requested help with its runaway debts on sunday cowen 's government is set to publish a four-year economic plan on wednesday and a new , cost-cutting budget on december 7 - a process that is crucial to secure loan payments from the eu and imf .
cowen said these processes would have to be completed before the dissolution of parliament , so as to protect ireland from financial collapse .
the junior coalition partners , the greens , pledged to support the government only until january ; party leader john gormley called on cowen to name a date for elections in the new year , saying the irish people needed " political certainty " and had been " misled and betrayed " by the prime minister 's cabinet .
for about a week , ireland had insisted that it could recover its economy without outside help , but caved in on sunday and requested a bailout from the eu and imf , following in the footsteps of greece earlier this year .
the country faces a budget deficit of 32 percent of gross domestic product , a figure which has ballooned because of the government bailout of its largest moneylender , anglo-irish bank .
even without this extra expense , the country 's 2010 shortfall would have comfortably exceeded the eu 's prescribed limit of 3 percent of gdp .
tough sell for european leaders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel may struggle to convince her party and her people that germany should foot part of the irish bill german chancellor angela merkel said on monday that the irish rescue was " positive overall , " because under the terms of the new deal , dublin would be forced to obey terms set by the eu and imf .
merkel said the rescue package was necessary to stabilize the european single currency , the euro .
a similar loan package for greece earlier this year , the first of its kind , was particularly unpopular in germany , not least among merkel 's conservative christian democratic union .
britain 's cash-strapped government , which is implementing its own series of tough austerity measures , also came under fire for contributing to the irish rescue , but the government defended the action .
" ireland is a friend in need , and we are here to help , " the conservative chancellor of the exchequer , george osborne said .
also on monday , the credit ratings agency moody 's said it would probably downgrade ireland 's sovereign debt by several notches in light of the eu-imf rescue .
author : mark hallam -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- eu agrees bailout for ireland eu finance ministers have agreed on a bailout fund for ireland to tackle the country 's huge budget deficit and save its banking sector .
it 's the second eu bailout package this year .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- germany denies pressuring ireland over business tax a german government spokesman said ireland should be allowed to determine its own corporation tax rate , despite recent pressure from a senior finance expert in chancellor angela merkel 's party .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic what is the real price of aid for ireland 's government ? -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- the people of ireland face tough times -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- how the rescue package works -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- feedback has cowen made the right move , and did he have a choice ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live politik direkt we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 23.11.2010 ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : cowen has come under pressure from all sides irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf . ireland 's prime minister brian cowen pulled the country out of the frying pan of debt on sunday , only to find himself plunged into the fire of a snap election on monday .
after securing a financial rescue believed to be worth up to 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- in loans from the european union and the international monetary fund , the fianna fail party leader was forced to promise early elections as his political friends and enemies both turned on him .
" it is my intention at the conclusion of the budgetary process , with the enactment of the necessary legislation in the new year , to then seek the dissolution of parliament , " prime minister brian cowen told reporters in a hastily-called press conference .
cowen was effectively yielding to his government 's junior coalition partners , the greens , who called for elections in january , although he did n't promise that they would be held in that month .
the two main opposition parties , labour and fine gael , had demanded an immediate dissolution of parliament instead .
" what is needed now is an immediate general election so that a new government , with a clear parliamentary majority , can prepare the four-year economic plan , complete negotiations with the eu and imf and frame a budget for 2011 , " fine gael leader enda kenny wrote in an e-mailed statement .
first things first bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland requested help with its runaway debts on sunday cowen 's government is set to publish a four-year economic plan on wednesday and a new , cost-cutting budget on december 7 - a process that is crucial to secure loan payments from the eu and imf .
cowen said these processes would have to be completed before the dissolution of parliament , so as to protect ireland from financial collapse .
the junior coalition partners , the greens , pledged to support the government only until january ; party leader john gormley called on cowen to name a date for elections in the new year , saying the irish people needed " political certainty " and had been " misled and betrayed " by the prime minister 's cabinet .
for about a week , ireland had insisted that it could recover its economy without outside help , but caved in on sunday and requested a bailout from the eu and imf , following in the footsteps of greece earlier this year .
the country faces a budget deficit of 32 percent of gross domestic product , a figure which has ballooned because of the government bailout of its largest moneylender , anglo-irish bank .
even without this extra expense , the country 's 2010 shortfall would have comfortably exceeded the eu 's prescribed limit of 3 percent of gdp .
tough sell for european leaders bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : merkel may struggle to convince her party and her people that germany should foot part of the irish bill german chancellor angela merkel said on monday that the irish rescue was " positive overall , " because under the terms of the new deal , dublin would be forced to obey terms set by the eu and imf .
merkel said the rescue package was necessary to stabilize the european single currency , the euro .
a similar loan package for greece earlier this year , the first of its kind , was particularly unpopular in germany , not least among merkel 's conservative christian democratic union .
britain 's cash-strapped government , which is implementing its own series of tough austerity measures , also came under fire for contributing to the irish rescue , but the government defended the action .
" ireland is a friend in need , and we are here to help , " the conservative chancellor of the exchequer , george osborne said .
also on monday , the credit ratings agency moody 's said it would probably downgrade ireland 's sovereign debt by several notches in light of the eu-imf rescue .
author : mark hallam -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : michael lawton send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- eu agrees bailout for ireland eu finance ministers have agreed on a bailout fund for ireland to tackle the country 's huge budget deficit and save its banking sector .
it 's the second eu bailout package this year .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- germany denies pressuring ireland over business tax a german government spokesman said ireland should be allowed to determine its own corporation tax rate , despite recent pressure from a senior finance expert in chancellor angela merkel 's party .
-lrb- 19.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic what is the real price of aid for ireland 's government ? -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- the people of ireland face tough times -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- how the rescue package works -lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
austria there is no mention of women in the austrian national anthem , but that is about to change .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 23.11.2010 portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portugal is seen as a future candidate for help portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next . portuguese prime minister jose socrates said on monday that his country 's economy remained robust and that there was no need for lisbon to ask for a financial rescue package .
the comments came after ireland conceded in agreeing to apply for a financial bailout program from the european union and international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portuguese prime minister socrates welcomed the irish acceptance of help portugal is high on the list of possible future rescue package recipients .
however , socrates said that his country 's financial system was performing well and said that its level of public debt - expected to be 7.3 percent for 2010 - was in line with the eu average .
" there are no links between portugal and ireland , " said socrates .
" i 've heard a lot of talk of the imf .
the country does not have any need for aid . "
the prime minister said he hoped that the irish acceptance of a financial package , which follows that of greece earlier in the year , would reassure nervous lending markets .
" i hope that the fact that ireland has asked for european union funds will permit the situation on the markets to return to normal , because portugal is feeling the effects of contagion very much , " said socrates .
lisbon keen to stay in driving seat like the irish administration , which had been reluctant to seek assistance , portugal 's socialist government is keen to avoid the need for outside help and any resulting loss of sovereignty .
such a course of action could prove unpopular with the electorate , with many older voters remembering traumatic interventions by the imf in the 1970s and 1980s .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish rescue deal follows a bailout for greece earlier this year this led to public spending being slashed at a time when the welfare system was too insufficient to provide proper protection for those affected .
however , some believe that both the imf 's approach and the situation of a more developed portugal in 2010 mean that a bailout is not so unthinkable .
" i think the mood against the imf is changing slightly , " economist pedro lains told deutsche welle .
" you see people who are responsible - officials and those connected to the opposition social democratic party - now they are changing their discourse slightly : they 're saying it is not a drama , that if it comes maybe it 's necessary . "
the center-right social democrat opposition has said it will not vote against the state budget for 2011 .
included in the budget are plans to cut public sector salaries and narrow the deficit to 4.6 percent of gdp .
away from parliament , a general strike was planned for wednesday - the first in two decades to be called by both of portugal 's two main trade union federations .
spain also claims to be different in neighboring spain , another country viewed as likely to need help , prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero said there were differences with the irish situation .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland 's prime minister is facing elections after the budget is approved zapatero 's socialist party 's organizational secretary , marcelino iglesias , quoted the premier as saying that bank stress tests during the summer - to assess the preparedness of banks for another financial crisis - had shown that the spanish financial sector was strong .
dublin 's economic woes stem in large part from the necessity to provide its own multi-billion euro financial aid plan to the troubled anglo-irish bank .
a spokesman for the eu 's economics commissioner also ruled out the risk of ireland 's problems precipitating a domino effect .
" there are no analogies to be made ; the irish case is very specific , " spokesman amadeu altafaj told reporters in brussels .
" the decisions concerning ireland are also meant to stop any possible tension and contagion to other economies , " he added .
the dublin rescue package - which could amount to as much as 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- - was agreed on sunday .
author : alison roberts , richard connor -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- portuguese government seals deal on austerity budget portugal 's minority socialist government has reached a deal with the country 's center-right opposition to introduce an austerity budget .
the agreement is seen as crucial step in averting political and financial chaos .
-lrb- 31.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic portugal could be the next candidate for financial aid -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
austria there is no mention of women in the austrian national anthem , but that is about to change .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 23.11.2010 portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portugal is seen as a future candidate for help portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next . portuguese prime minister jose socrates said on monday that his country 's economy remained robust and that there was no need for lisbon to ask for a financial rescue package .
the comments came after ireland conceded in agreeing to apply for a financial bailout program from the european union and international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portuguese prime minister socrates welcomed the irish acceptance of help portugal is high on the list of possible future rescue package recipients .
however , socrates said that his country 's financial system was performing well and said that its level of public debt - expected to be 7.3 percent for 2010 - was in line with the eu average .
" there are no links between portugal and ireland , " said socrates .
" i 've heard a lot of talk of the imf .
the country does not have any need for aid . "
the prime minister said he hoped that the irish acceptance of a financial package , which follows that of greece earlier in the year , would reassure nervous lending markets .
" i hope that the fact that ireland has asked for european union funds will permit the situation on the markets to return to normal , because portugal is feeling the effects of contagion very much , " said socrates .
lisbon keen to stay in driving seat like the irish administration , which had been reluctant to seek assistance , portugal 's socialist government is keen to avoid the need for outside help and any resulting loss of sovereignty .
such a course of action could prove unpopular with the electorate , with many older voters remembering traumatic interventions by the imf in the 1970s and 1980s .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish rescue deal follows a bailout for greece earlier this year this led to public spending being slashed at a time when the welfare system was too insufficient to provide proper protection for those affected .
however , some believe that both the imf 's approach and the situation of a more developed portugal in 2010 mean that a bailout is not so unthinkable .
" i think the mood against the imf is changing slightly , " economist pedro lains told deutsche welle .
" you see people who are responsible - officials and those connected to the opposition social democratic party - now they are changing their discourse slightly : they 're saying it is not a drama , that if it comes maybe it 's necessary . "
the center-right social democrat opposition has said it will not vote against the state budget for 2011 .
included in the budget are plans to cut public sector salaries and narrow the deficit to 4.6 percent of gdp .
away from parliament , a general strike was planned for wednesday - the first in two decades to be called by both of portugal 's two main trade union federations .
spain also claims to be different in neighboring spain , another country viewed as likely to need help , prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero said there were differences with the irish situation .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland 's prime minister is facing elections after the budget is approved zapatero 's socialist party 's organizational secretary , marcelino iglesias , quoted the premier as saying that bank stress tests during the summer - to assess the preparedness of banks for another financial crisis - had shown that the spanish financial sector was strong .
dublin 's economic woes stem in large part from the necessity to provide its own multi-billion euro financial aid plan to the troubled anglo-irish bank .
a spokesman for the eu 's economics commissioner also ruled out the risk of ireland 's problems precipitating a domino effect .
" there are no analogies to be made ; the irish case is very specific , " spokesman amadeu altafaj told reporters in brussels .
" the decisions concerning ireland are also meant to stop any possible tension and contagion to other economies , " he added .
the dublin rescue package - which could amount to as much as 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- - was agreed on sunday .
author : alison roberts , richard connor -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- portuguese government seals deal on austerity budget portugal 's minority socialist government has reached a deal with the country 's center-right opposition to introduce an austerity budget .
the agreement is seen as crucial step in averting political and financial chaos .
-lrb- 31.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic portugal could be the next candidate for financial aid -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with the week we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art glass art has been made on the island of murano for centuries , but it still has an exciting future .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de economy -pipe- 23.11.2010 portugal denies need for bailout after ireland deal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portugal is seen as a future candidate for help portugal has said that it will not follow ireland in asking for financial aid , fearing that the result would be even greater austerity measures .
but with dublin striking a deal , many wonder who will be next . portuguese prime minister jose socrates said on monday that his country 's economy remained robust and that there was no need for lisbon to ask for a financial rescue package .
the comments came after ireland conceded in agreeing to apply for a financial bailout program from the european union and international monetary fund -lrb- imf -rrb- .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : portuguese prime minister socrates welcomed the irish acceptance of help portugal is high on the list of possible future rescue package recipients .
however , socrates said that his country 's financial system was performing well and said that its level of public debt - expected to be 7.3 percent for 2010 - was in line with the eu average .
" there are no links between portugal and ireland , " said socrates .
" i 've heard a lot of talk of the imf .
the country does not have any need for aid . "
the prime minister said he hoped that the irish acceptance of a financial package , which follows that of greece earlier in the year , would reassure nervous lending markets .
" i hope that the fact that ireland has asked for european union funds will permit the situation on the markets to return to normal , because portugal is feeling the effects of contagion very much , " said socrates .
lisbon keen to stay in driving seat like the irish administration , which had been reluctant to seek assistance , portugal 's socialist government is keen to avoid the need for outside help and any resulting loss of sovereignty .
such a course of action could prove unpopular with the electorate , with many older voters remembering traumatic interventions by the imf in the 1970s and 1980s .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the irish rescue deal follows a bailout for greece earlier this year this led to public spending being slashed at a time when the welfare system was too insufficient to provide proper protection for those affected .
however , some believe that both the imf 's approach and the situation of a more developed portugal in 2010 mean that a bailout is not so unthinkable .
" i think the mood against the imf is changing slightly , " economist pedro lains told deutsche welle .
" you see people who are responsible - officials and those connected to the opposition social democratic party - now they are changing their discourse slightly : they 're saying it is not a drama , that if it comes maybe it 's necessary . "
the center-right social democrat opposition has said it will not vote against the state budget for 2011 .
included in the budget are plans to cut public sector salaries and narrow the deficit to 4.6 percent of gdp .
away from parliament , a general strike was planned for wednesday - the first in two decades to be called by both of portugal 's two main trade union federations .
spain also claims to be different in neighboring spain , another country viewed as likely to need help , prime minister jose luis rodriguez zapatero said there were differences with the irish situation .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : ireland 's prime minister is facing elections after the budget is approved zapatero 's socialist party 's organizational secretary , marcelino iglesias , quoted the premier as saying that bank stress tests during the summer - to assess the preparedness of banks for another financial crisis - had shown that the spanish financial sector was strong .
dublin 's economic woes stem in large part from the necessity to provide its own multi-billion euro financial aid plan to the troubled anglo-irish bank .
a spokesman for the eu 's economics commissioner also ruled out the risk of ireland 's problems precipitating a domino effect .
" there are no analogies to be made ; the irish case is very specific , " spokesman amadeu altafaj told reporters in brussels .
" the decisions concerning ireland are also meant to stop any possible tension and contagion to other economies , " he added .
the dublin rescue package - which could amount to as much as 90 billion euros -lrb- $ 123 billion -rrb- - was agreed on sunday .
author : alison roberts , richard connor -lrb- reuters , afp -rrb- editor : nancy isenson send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland 's financial rescue triggers early elections irish prime minister brian cowen has announced early elections , as he faces discord from allies and enemies over his handling of the economy .
on sunday , ireland requested financial aid from the eu and imf .
-lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- britain , germany have vested interest in saving ireland from debt crisis global markets are abuzz with speculation that ireland will become the eurozone 's next state to need a bailout .
those who are most entangled in the web of debt may be forced to support such a bailout .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- portuguese government seals deal on austerity budget portugal 's minority socialist government has reached a deal with the country 's center-right opposition to introduce an austerity budget .
the agreement is seen as crucial step in averting political and financial chaos .
-lrb- 31.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic portugal could be the next candidate for financial aid -lrb- 23.11.2010 -rrb- feedback are more countries likely to need help to reassure markets ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 23.11.2010 parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : social democrats put the emphasis on unity across the eu , the greens say ireland is a symbol of failed market liberalism and the liberals insist the goal of eurozone countries should be converging economic policies . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic listen to the report from christoph hasselbach in brussels .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 23.11.2010 parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : social democrats put the emphasis on unity across the eu , the greens say ireland is a symbol of failed market liberalism and the liberals insist the goal of eurozone countries should be converging economic policies . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic listen to the report from christoph hasselbach in brussels .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live keep up to date tune in to the latest news and current affairs .
news newslink newslink plus sports report © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis -pipe- correspondents report -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
newslink reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de correspondents report -pipe- 23.11.2010 parties in european parliament differ on irish deficit and banking crisis großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : social democrats put the emphasis on unity across the eu , the greens say ireland is a symbol of failed market liberalism and the liberals insist the goal of eurozone countries should be converging economic policies . send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic listen to the report from christoph hasselbach in brussels .
feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
roald dahl won children 's hearts by co-conspiring against adults -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de literature -pipe- 23.11.2010 roald dahl won children 's hearts by co-conspiring against adults großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roald dahl never really grew up , say those who knew him well best-selling british author roald dahl is well known around the world for his macabre children 's stories .
two decades after his death , a museum in his home town tells the story of the reticent writer 's life and work . chocolate factory owners , massive peaches , surprise endings , black humor and grotesque scenes - that was the world of roald dahl immortalized in books such as " james and the giant peach , " " fantastic mr fox " or " charlie and the chocolate factory . " a museum in great missenden , where dahl lived until his death on november 23 , 1990 , celebrates the writer 's life and work .
located some 50 kilometers northwest of london in buckinghamshire , the area is all rolling hills and quaint half-timbered houses . to enter the museum in great missenden , visitors pass through doors resembling chocolate bars which - much to the disappointment of dahl 's young fans - are made of plastic . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : unfortunately , the chocolate doors are n't real the museum , which was declared the best tourism project in britain a few years ago , is financed through entry fees , book royalties and donations by the dahl family .
some 50,000 visitors - mainly from japan , australia , the us , and germany - make it to great missenden each year . the museum houses numerous letters , photographs and dahl 's personal belongings including his sandals , his royal air force helmet from the second world war and his favorite worn-out leather armchair . in addition , the collection includes films and audios documenting dahl 's life as well as a large archive containing all the writer 's manuscripts . roald dahl , born in 1916 in llandaff , south wales , to norwegian parents , wrote 19 children 's books , short stories for adults and numerous screenplays and television scripts . room for imagination children are at the centerpiece of the exhibition .
the museum 's aim is to encourage children to write and follow their own fantasies , according to amelia foster who heads the roald dahl museum and story center . at the museum 's entrance , right after the chocolate bar doors , each child is given an " ideas book . "
in it , children can write whatever comes into their mind during their visit . cutting out and pasting things into the book is also allowed , which is how dahl apparently liked to work himself .
he is said to have used such tools to create senseless and yet wonderfully onomatopoeic words .
dahl collected lists of rhyming words and ideas that he wanted to work into his stories - tales that fascinated children and adults alike , foster said . " we were very keen when we were developing the museum not to have a shrine to dahl .
in fact , there three things that roald dahl hated : museums , beards and speeches , " foster said .
" it 's very important to us not to make it too much like ' what a wonderful man ' - yes , he was but it 's not about that .
it 's about children 's imagination , getting them infused . " bildunterschrift : the museum is located in dahl 's hometown , great missenden a plane crash and a literary career at the center of the museum is a shed that resembles dahl 's real writing studio .
that 's where he used to shut himself in each morning , sinking into his leather armchair . for almost 40 years , dahl penned his stories here with sharp pencils that he had sent specially from the united states , on yellow lined paper .
dahl wanted to be alone during the writing process ; even children were n't allowed here .
he 'd tell them there were wolves in his den so that they would n't disturb him . in addition to the frayed furniture , other strange objects include the end of a femur which surgeons had removed after dahl suffered major spinal and hip injuries when he crashed his biplane in the libyan desert at the beginning of world war ii . in the sort of macabre gesture that would later mark his writing , dahl preserved the femur and used it as a paperweight in his writing studio . it was surviving that serious plane crash in libya that eventually led to dahl 's writing career .
he once told an interviewer that author c.s. forester suggested to dahl that he write about being shot down in the desert .
the story was reportedly bought by a british newspaper and the rest is literary history . ' the adult is the enemy ' dahl 's books are a huge success , many of them international bestsellers , and have been translated into more than 40 languages .
millions of copies of his children 's books have been sold . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the roald dahl museum aims to expand children 's imaginations dahl reportedly frequently said the key to his success was conspiring with children against adults . " it may be simplistic , but it is the way .
parents and schoolteachers are the enemy .
the adult is the enemy of the child because of the awful process of civilizing this thing that when it is born it is an animal with no manners , no moral sense at all , " dahl said in a 1990 interview with british newspaper the independent . amanda conquy , who was a friend of dahl 's and heads the roald dahl foundation in great missenden , said the writer understood that children like to be startled and amazed and appreciate unsavory details . " -lsb- dahl -rsb- had a wicked sense of humor .
i thought he was wonderful .
it was only as an adult that i began to see how difficult he could be , " conquy said .
" but with children he used to say about himself - and i think it was true - he never really grew up .
he had the mind of a child really . " not everyone approved of dahl 's writing , however .
several literary critics slammed his books as antisocial , brutish and anti-feminist .
but conquy insisted that dahl 's books were simply macabre , satirical and timeless .
they deal with shabby , brutal and bigoted adults and they had their own morals , she said . " i think he wanted children to feel from his books that there was hope for them .
if there was good , there was hope for them . " author : michael marek -lrb- sp -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de forgotten book by margarete boehme to be revived in us germany has a long literary tradition but names like goethe and schiller are likely to spring to mind before margarete boehme 's .
however , her profile is on the rise as one of her most famous works is re-published .
-lrb- 03.11.2010 -rrb- children 's books for muslims in german could foster integration children 's books about christianity abound in german , but muslim children in germany have a tough time finding books about their own religion .
a new publisher is changing that .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- author cornelia funke weaves page turners for readers of all ages german author cornelia funke 's books have been translated into 37 languages and are enjoyed by readers in more than 40 countries .
it was the novel " the thief lord " that catapulted her to international fame in 2002 .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what is your favorite book by roald dahl ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
culture calendar april happenings from music and art to film and dance - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
art meet several artists who live in a small world and miniaturize their work .
the filmmaker the model builder the engraver the painter the photographer podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 11 - jupiter jones are moving on up subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
roald dahl won children 's hearts by co-conspiring against adults -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de literature -pipe- 23.11.2010 roald dahl won children 's hearts by co-conspiring against adults großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roald dahl never really grew up , say those who knew him well best-selling british author roald dahl is well known around the world for his macabre children 's stories .
two decades after his death , a museum in his home town tells the story of the reticent writer 's life and work . chocolate factory owners , massive peaches , surprise endings , black humor and grotesque scenes - that was the world of roald dahl immortalized in books such as " james and the giant peach , " " fantastic mr fox " or " charlie and the chocolate factory . " a museum in great missenden , where dahl lived until his death on november 23 , 1990 , celebrates the writer 's life and work .
located some 50 kilometers northwest of london in buckinghamshire , the area is all rolling hills and quaint half-timbered houses . to enter the museum in great missenden , visitors pass through doors resembling chocolate bars which - much to the disappointment of dahl 's young fans - are made of plastic . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : unfortunately , the chocolate doors are n't real the museum , which was declared the best tourism project in britain a few years ago , is financed through entry fees , book royalties and donations by the dahl family .
some 50,000 visitors - mainly from japan , australia , the us , and germany - make it to great missenden each year . the museum houses numerous letters , photographs and dahl 's personal belongings including his sandals , his royal air force helmet from the second world war and his favorite worn-out leather armchair . in addition , the collection includes films and audios documenting dahl 's life as well as a large archive containing all the writer 's manuscripts . roald dahl , born in 1916 in llandaff , south wales , to norwegian parents , wrote 19 children 's books , short stories for adults and numerous screenplays and television scripts . room for imagination children are at the centerpiece of the exhibition .
the museum 's aim is to encourage children to write and follow their own fantasies , according to amelia foster who heads the roald dahl museum and story center . at the museum 's entrance , right after the chocolate bar doors , each child is given an " ideas book . "
in it , children can write whatever comes into their mind during their visit . cutting out and pasting things into the book is also allowed , which is how dahl apparently liked to work himself .
he is said to have used such tools to create senseless and yet wonderfully onomatopoeic words .
dahl collected lists of rhyming words and ideas that he wanted to work into his stories - tales that fascinated children and adults alike , foster said . " we were very keen when we were developing the museum not to have a shrine to dahl .
in fact , there three things that roald dahl hated : museums , beards and speeches , " foster said .
" it 's very important to us not to make it too much like ' what a wonderful man ' - yes , he was but it 's not about that .
it 's about children 's imagination , getting them infused . " bildunterschrift : the museum is located in dahl 's hometown , great missenden a plane crash and a literary career at the center of the museum is a shed that resembles dahl 's real writing studio .
that 's where he used to shut himself in each morning , sinking into his leather armchair . for almost 40 years , dahl penned his stories here with sharp pencils that he had sent specially from the united states , on yellow lined paper .
dahl wanted to be alone during the writing process ; even children were n't allowed here .
he 'd tell them there were wolves in his den so that they would n't disturb him . in addition to the frayed furniture , other strange objects include the end of a femur which surgeons had removed after dahl suffered major spinal and hip injuries when he crashed his biplane in the libyan desert at the beginning of world war ii . in the sort of macabre gesture that would later mark his writing , dahl preserved the femur and used it as a paperweight in his writing studio . it was surviving that serious plane crash in libya that eventually led to dahl 's writing career .
he once told an interviewer that author c.s. forester suggested to dahl that he write about being shot down in the desert .
the story was reportedly bought by a british newspaper and the rest is literary history . ' the adult is the enemy ' dahl 's books are a huge success , many of them international bestsellers , and have been translated into more than 40 languages .
millions of copies of his children 's books have been sold . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the roald dahl museum aims to expand children 's imaginations dahl reportedly frequently said the key to his success was conspiring with children against adults . " it may be simplistic , but it is the way .
parents and schoolteachers are the enemy .
the adult is the enemy of the child because of the awful process of civilizing this thing that when it is born it is an animal with no manners , no moral sense at all , " dahl said in a 1990 interview with british newspaper the independent . amanda conquy , who was a friend of dahl 's and heads the roald dahl foundation in great missenden , said the writer understood that children like to be startled and amazed and appreciate unsavory details . " -lsb- dahl -rsb- had a wicked sense of humor .
i thought he was wonderful .
it was only as an adult that i began to see how difficult he could be , " conquy said .
" but with children he used to say about himself - and i think it was true - he never really grew up .
he had the mind of a child really . " not everyone approved of dahl 's writing , however .
several literary critics slammed his books as antisocial , brutish and anti-feminist .
but conquy insisted that dahl 's books were simply macabre , satirical and timeless .
they deal with shabby , brutal and bigoted adults and they had their own morals , she said . " i think he wanted children to feel from his books that there was hope for them .
if there was good , there was hope for them . " author : michael marek -lrb- sp -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de forgotten book by margarete boehme to be revived in us germany has a long literary tradition but names like goethe and schiller are likely to spring to mind before margarete boehme 's .
however , her profile is on the rise as one of her most famous works is re-published .
-lrb- 03.11.2010 -rrb- children 's books for muslims in german could foster integration children 's books about christianity abound in german , but muslim children in germany have a tough time finding books about their own religion .
a new publisher is changing that .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- author cornelia funke weaves page turners for readers of all ages german author cornelia funke 's books have been translated into 37 languages and are enjoyed by readers in more than 40 countries .
it was the novel " the thief lord " that catapulted her to international fame in 2002 .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what is your favorite book by roald dahl ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
music copyright issues a tightening of music licensing laws means kindergartens have to pay for the songs kids sing .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski subscribe on itunes get the rss feed visit germany dw-tv tells you the top things to visit in this fun rhineland city .
" recommended " as video on demand download here -lrb- mp4 -rrb- cologne cologne carnival the claudius therme ' suenner im walfisch ' brewery -lrb- german -rrb- word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
roald dahl won children 's hearts by co-conspiring against adults -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de literature -pipe- 23.11.2010 roald dahl won children 's hearts by co-conspiring against adults großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roald dahl never really grew up , say those who knew him well best-selling british author roald dahl is well known around the world for his macabre children 's stories .
two decades after his death , a museum in his home town tells the story of the reticent writer 's life and work . chocolate factory owners , massive peaches , surprise endings , black humor and grotesque scenes - that was the world of roald dahl immortalized in books such as " james and the giant peach , " " fantastic mr fox " or " charlie and the chocolate factory . " a museum in great missenden , where dahl lived until his death on november 23 , 1990 , celebrates the writer 's life and work .
located some 50 kilometers northwest of london in buckinghamshire , the area is all rolling hills and quaint half-timbered houses . to enter the museum in great missenden , visitors pass through doors resembling chocolate bars which - much to the disappointment of dahl 's young fans - are made of plastic . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : unfortunately , the chocolate doors are n't real the museum , which was declared the best tourism project in britain a few years ago , is financed through entry fees , book royalties and donations by the dahl family .
some 50,000 visitors - mainly from japan , australia , the us , and germany - make it to great missenden each year . the museum houses numerous letters , photographs and dahl 's personal belongings including his sandals , his royal air force helmet from the second world war and his favorite worn-out leather armchair . in addition , the collection includes films and audios documenting dahl 's life as well as a large archive containing all the writer 's manuscripts . roald dahl , born in 1916 in llandaff , south wales , to norwegian parents , wrote 19 children 's books , short stories for adults and numerous screenplays and television scripts . room for imagination children are at the centerpiece of the exhibition .
the museum 's aim is to encourage children to write and follow their own fantasies , according to amelia foster who heads the roald dahl museum and story center . at the museum 's entrance , right after the chocolate bar doors , each child is given an " ideas book . "
in it , children can write whatever comes into their mind during their visit . cutting out and pasting things into the book is also allowed , which is how dahl apparently liked to work himself .
he is said to have used such tools to create senseless and yet wonderfully onomatopoeic words .
dahl collected lists of rhyming words and ideas that he wanted to work into his stories - tales that fascinated children and adults alike , foster said . " we were very keen when we were developing the museum not to have a shrine to dahl .
in fact , there three things that roald dahl hated : museums , beards and speeches , " foster said .
" it 's very important to us not to make it too much like ' what a wonderful man ' - yes , he was but it 's not about that .
it 's about children 's imagination , getting them infused . " bildunterschrift : the museum is located in dahl 's hometown , great missenden a plane crash and a literary career at the center of the museum is a shed that resembles dahl 's real writing studio .
that 's where he used to shut himself in each morning , sinking into his leather armchair . for almost 40 years , dahl penned his stories here with sharp pencils that he had sent specially from the united states , on yellow lined paper .
dahl wanted to be alone during the writing process ; even children were n't allowed here .
he 'd tell them there were wolves in his den so that they would n't disturb him . in addition to the frayed furniture , other strange objects include the end of a femur which surgeons had removed after dahl suffered major spinal and hip injuries when he crashed his biplane in the libyan desert at the beginning of world war ii . in the sort of macabre gesture that would later mark his writing , dahl preserved the femur and used it as a paperweight in his writing studio . it was surviving that serious plane crash in libya that eventually led to dahl 's writing career .
he once told an interviewer that author c.s. forester suggested to dahl that he write about being shot down in the desert .
the story was reportedly bought by a british newspaper and the rest is literary history . ' the adult is the enemy ' dahl 's books are a huge success , many of them international bestsellers , and have been translated into more than 40 languages .
millions of copies of his children 's books have been sold . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the roald dahl museum aims to expand children 's imaginations dahl reportedly frequently said the key to his success was conspiring with children against adults . " it may be simplistic , but it is the way .
parents and schoolteachers are the enemy .
the adult is the enemy of the child because of the awful process of civilizing this thing that when it is born it is an animal with no manners , no moral sense at all , " dahl said in a 1990 interview with british newspaper the independent . amanda conquy , who was a friend of dahl 's and heads the roald dahl foundation in great missenden , said the writer understood that children like to be startled and amazed and appreciate unsavory details . " -lsb- dahl -rsb- had a wicked sense of humor .
i thought he was wonderful .
it was only as an adult that i began to see how difficult he could be , " conquy said .
" but with children he used to say about himself - and i think it was true - he never really grew up .
he had the mind of a child really . " not everyone approved of dahl 's writing , however .
several literary critics slammed his books as antisocial , brutish and anti-feminist .
but conquy insisted that dahl 's books were simply macabre , satirical and timeless .
they deal with shabby , brutal and bigoted adults and they had their own morals , she said . " i think he wanted children to feel from his books that there was hope for them .
if there was good , there was hope for them . " author : michael marek -lrb- sp -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de forgotten book by margarete boehme to be revived in us germany has a long literary tradition but names like goethe and schiller are likely to spring to mind before margarete boehme 's .
however , her profile is on the rise as one of her most famous works is re-published .
-lrb- 03.11.2010 -rrb- children 's books for muslims in german could foster integration children 's books about christianity abound in german , but muslim children in germany have a tough time finding books about their own religion .
a new publisher is changing that .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- author cornelia funke weaves page turners for readers of all ages german author cornelia funke 's books have been translated into 37 languages and are enjoyed by readers in more than 40 countries .
it was the novel " the thief lord " that catapulted her to international fame in 2002 .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
the podcast 's homepage somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
roald dahl won children 's hearts by co-conspiring against adults -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de literature -pipe- 23.11.2010 roald dahl won children 's hearts by co-conspiring against adults großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roald dahl never really grew up , say those who knew him well best-selling british author roald dahl is well known around the world for his macabre children 's stories .
two decades after his death , a museum in his home town tells the story of the reticent writer 's life and work . chocolate factory owners , massive peaches , surprise endings , black humor and grotesque scenes - that was the world of roald dahl immortalized in books such as " james and the giant peach , " " fantastic mr fox " or " charlie and the chocolate factory . " a museum in great missenden , where dahl lived until his death on november 23 , 1990 , celebrates the writer 's life and work .
located some 50 kilometers northwest of london in buckinghamshire , the area is all rolling hills and quaint half-timbered houses . to enter the museum in great missenden , visitors pass through doors resembling chocolate bars which - much to the disappointment of dahl 's young fans - are made of plastic . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : unfortunately , the chocolate doors are n't real the museum , which was declared the best tourism project in britain a few years ago , is financed through entry fees , book royalties and donations by the dahl family .
some 50,000 visitors - mainly from japan , australia , the us , and germany - make it to great missenden each year . the museum houses numerous letters , photographs and dahl 's personal belongings including his sandals , his royal air force helmet from the second world war and his favorite worn-out leather armchair . in addition , the collection includes films and audios documenting dahl 's life as well as a large archive containing all the writer 's manuscripts . roald dahl , born in 1916 in llandaff , south wales , to norwegian parents , wrote 19 children 's books , short stories for adults and numerous screenplays and television scripts . room for imagination children are at the centerpiece of the exhibition .
the museum 's aim is to encourage children to write and follow their own fantasies , according to amelia foster who heads the roald dahl museum and story center . at the museum 's entrance , right after the chocolate bar doors , each child is given an " ideas book . "
in it , children can write whatever comes into their mind during their visit . cutting out and pasting things into the book is also allowed , which is how dahl apparently liked to work himself .
he is said to have used such tools to create senseless and yet wonderfully onomatopoeic words .
dahl collected lists of rhyming words and ideas that he wanted to work into his stories - tales that fascinated children and adults alike , foster said . " we were very keen when we were developing the museum not to have a shrine to dahl .
in fact , there three things that roald dahl hated : museums , beards and speeches , " foster said .
" it 's very important to us not to make it too much like ' what a wonderful man ' - yes , he was but it 's not about that .
it 's about children 's imagination , getting them infused . " bildunterschrift : the museum is located in dahl 's hometown , great missenden a plane crash and a literary career at the center of the museum is a shed that resembles dahl 's real writing studio .
that 's where he used to shut himself in each morning , sinking into his leather armchair . for almost 40 years , dahl penned his stories here with sharp pencils that he had sent specially from the united states , on yellow lined paper .
dahl wanted to be alone during the writing process ; even children were n't allowed here .
he 'd tell them there were wolves in his den so that they would n't disturb him . in addition to the frayed furniture , other strange objects include the end of a femur which surgeons had removed after dahl suffered major spinal and hip injuries when he crashed his biplane in the libyan desert at the beginning of world war ii . in the sort of macabre gesture that would later mark his writing , dahl preserved the femur and used it as a paperweight in his writing studio . it was surviving that serious plane crash in libya that eventually led to dahl 's writing career .
he once told an interviewer that author c.s. forester suggested to dahl that he write about being shot down in the desert .
the story was reportedly bought by a british newspaper and the rest is literary history . ' the adult is the enemy ' dahl 's books are a huge success , many of them international bestsellers , and have been translated into more than 40 languages .
millions of copies of his children 's books have been sold . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the roald dahl museum aims to expand children 's imaginations dahl reportedly frequently said the key to his success was conspiring with children against adults . " it may be simplistic , but it is the way .
parents and schoolteachers are the enemy .
the adult is the enemy of the child because of the awful process of civilizing this thing that when it is born it is an animal with no manners , no moral sense at all , " dahl said in a 1990 interview with british newspaper the independent . amanda conquy , who was a friend of dahl 's and heads the roald dahl foundation in great missenden , said the writer understood that children like to be startled and amazed and appreciate unsavory details . " -lsb- dahl -rsb- had a wicked sense of humor .
i thought he was wonderful .
it was only as an adult that i began to see how difficult he could be , " conquy said .
" but with children he used to say about himself - and i think it was true - he never really grew up .
he had the mind of a child really . " not everyone approved of dahl 's writing , however .
several literary critics slammed his books as antisocial , brutish and anti-feminist .
but conquy insisted that dahl 's books were simply macabre , satirical and timeless .
they deal with shabby , brutal and bigoted adults and they had their own morals , she said . " i think he wanted children to feel from his books that there was hope for them .
if there was good , there was hope for them . " author : michael marek -lrb- sp -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de forgotten book by margarete boehme to be revived in us germany has a long literary tradition but names like goethe and schiller are likely to spring to mind before margarete boehme 's .
however , her profile is on the rise as one of her most famous works is re-published .
-lrb- 03.11.2010 -rrb- children 's books for muslims in german could foster integration children 's books about christianity abound in german , but muslim children in germany have a tough time finding books about their own religion .
a new publisher is changing that .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- author cornelia funke weaves page turners for readers of all ages german author cornelia funke 's books have been translated into 37 languages and are enjoyed by readers in more than 40 countries .
it was the novel " the thief lord " that catapulted her to international fame in 2002 .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
travel take a close-up look at some of europe 's most exciting cities .
oxford , britain schwerin , germany las palmas , spain reykjavik , iceland darmstadt , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
roald dahl won children 's hearts by co-conspiring against adults -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de literature -pipe- 23.11.2010 roald dahl won children 's hearts by co-conspiring against adults großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roald dahl never really grew up , say those who knew him well best-selling british author roald dahl is well known around the world for his macabre children 's stories .
two decades after his death , a museum in his home town tells the story of the reticent writer 's life and work . chocolate factory owners , massive peaches , surprise endings , black humor and grotesque scenes - that was the world of roald dahl immortalized in books such as " james and the giant peach , " " fantastic mr fox " or " charlie and the chocolate factory . " a museum in great missenden , where dahl lived until his death on november 23 , 1990 , celebrates the writer 's life and work .
located some 50 kilometers northwest of london in buckinghamshire , the area is all rolling hills and quaint half-timbered houses . to enter the museum in great missenden , visitors pass through doors resembling chocolate bars which - much to the disappointment of dahl 's young fans - are made of plastic . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : unfortunately , the chocolate doors are n't real the museum , which was declared the best tourism project in britain a few years ago , is financed through entry fees , book royalties and donations by the dahl family .
some 50,000 visitors - mainly from japan , australia , the us , and germany - make it to great missenden each year . the museum houses numerous letters , photographs and dahl 's personal belongings including his sandals , his royal air force helmet from the second world war and his favorite worn-out leather armchair . in addition , the collection includes films and audios documenting dahl 's life as well as a large archive containing all the writer 's manuscripts . roald dahl , born in 1916 in llandaff , south wales , to norwegian parents , wrote 19 children 's books , short stories for adults and numerous screenplays and television scripts . room for imagination children are at the centerpiece of the exhibition .
the museum 's aim is to encourage children to write and follow their own fantasies , according to amelia foster who heads the roald dahl museum and story center . at the museum 's entrance , right after the chocolate bar doors , each child is given an " ideas book . "
in it , children can write whatever comes into their mind during their visit . cutting out and pasting things into the book is also allowed , which is how dahl apparently liked to work himself .
he is said to have used such tools to create senseless and yet wonderfully onomatopoeic words .
dahl collected lists of rhyming words and ideas that he wanted to work into his stories - tales that fascinated children and adults alike , foster said . " we were very keen when we were developing the museum not to have a shrine to dahl .
in fact , there three things that roald dahl hated : museums , beards and speeches , " foster said .
" it 's very important to us not to make it too much like ' what a wonderful man ' - yes , he was but it 's not about that .
it 's about children 's imagination , getting them infused . " bildunterschrift : the museum is located in dahl 's hometown , great missenden a plane crash and a literary career at the center of the museum is a shed that resembles dahl 's real writing studio .
that 's where he used to shut himself in each morning , sinking into his leather armchair . for almost 40 years , dahl penned his stories here with sharp pencils that he had sent specially from the united states , on yellow lined paper .
dahl wanted to be alone during the writing process ; even children were n't allowed here .
he 'd tell them there were wolves in his den so that they would n't disturb him . in addition to the frayed furniture , other strange objects include the end of a femur which surgeons had removed after dahl suffered major spinal and hip injuries when he crashed his biplane in the libyan desert at the beginning of world war ii . in the sort of macabre gesture that would later mark his writing , dahl preserved the femur and used it as a paperweight in his writing studio . it was surviving that serious plane crash in libya that eventually led to dahl 's writing career .
he once told an interviewer that author c.s. forester suggested to dahl that he write about being shot down in the desert .
the story was reportedly bought by a british newspaper and the rest is literary history . ' the adult is the enemy ' dahl 's books are a huge success , many of them international bestsellers , and have been translated into more than 40 languages .
millions of copies of his children 's books have been sold . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the roald dahl museum aims to expand children 's imaginations dahl reportedly frequently said the key to his success was conspiring with children against adults . " it may be simplistic , but it is the way .
parents and schoolteachers are the enemy .
the adult is the enemy of the child because of the awful process of civilizing this thing that when it is born it is an animal with no manners , no moral sense at all , " dahl said in a 1990 interview with british newspaper the independent . amanda conquy , who was a friend of dahl 's and heads the roald dahl foundation in great missenden , said the writer understood that children like to be startled and amazed and appreciate unsavory details . " -lsb- dahl -rsb- had a wicked sense of humor .
i thought he was wonderful .
it was only as an adult that i began to see how difficult he could be , " conquy said .
" but with children he used to say about himself - and i think it was true - he never really grew up .
he had the mind of a child really . " not everyone approved of dahl 's writing , however .
several literary critics slammed his books as antisocial , brutish and anti-feminist .
but conquy insisted that dahl 's books were simply macabre , satirical and timeless .
they deal with shabby , brutal and bigoted adults and they had their own morals , she said . " i think he wanted children to feel from his books that there was hope for them .
if there was good , there was hope for them . " author : michael marek -lrb- sp -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de forgotten book by margarete boehme to be revived in us germany has a long literary tradition but names like goethe and schiller are likely to spring to mind before margarete boehme 's .
however , her profile is on the rise as one of her most famous works is re-published .
-lrb- 03.11.2010 -rrb- children 's books for muslims in german could foster integration children 's books about christianity abound in german , but muslim children in germany have a tough time finding books about their own religion .
a new publisher is changing that .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- author cornelia funke weaves page turners for readers of all ages german author cornelia funke 's books have been translated into 37 languages and are enjoyed by readers in more than 40 countries .
it was the novel " the thief lord " that catapulted her to international fame in 2002 .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what is your favorite book by roald dahl ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
picture gallery christmas markets holiday cheer ís easy to come by during the advent season in germany .
travel explore some of europe 's most fascinating cities with dw-tv 's euromaxx .
athens , greece trieste , italy krakow , poland le mans , france tarragona , spain oslo , norway edinburgh , scotland dresden , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
roald dahl won children 's hearts by co-conspiring against adults -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 23.11.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de literature -pipe- 23.11.2010 roald dahl won children 's hearts by co-conspiring against adults großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : roald dahl never really grew up , say those who knew him well best-selling british author roald dahl is well known around the world for his macabre children 's stories .
two decades after his death , a museum in his home town tells the story of the reticent writer 's life and work . chocolate factory owners , massive peaches , surprise endings , black humor and grotesque scenes - that was the world of roald dahl immortalized in books such as " james and the giant peach , " " fantastic mr fox " or " charlie and the chocolate factory . " a museum in great missenden , where dahl lived until his death on november 23 , 1990 , celebrates the writer 's life and work .
located some 50 kilometers northwest of london in buckinghamshire , the area is all rolling hills and quaint half-timbered houses . to enter the museum in great missenden , visitors pass through doors resembling chocolate bars which - much to the disappointment of dahl 's young fans - are made of plastic . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : unfortunately , the chocolate doors are n't real the museum , which was declared the best tourism project in britain a few years ago , is financed through entry fees , book royalties and donations by the dahl family .
some 50,000 visitors - mainly from japan , australia , the us , and germany - make it to great missenden each year . the museum houses numerous letters , photographs and dahl 's personal belongings including his sandals , his royal air force helmet from the second world war and his favorite worn-out leather armchair . in addition , the collection includes films and audios documenting dahl 's life as well as a large archive containing all the writer 's manuscripts . roald dahl , born in 1916 in llandaff , south wales , to norwegian parents , wrote 19 children 's books , short stories for adults and numerous screenplays and television scripts . room for imagination children are at the centerpiece of the exhibition .
the museum 's aim is to encourage children to write and follow their own fantasies , according to amelia foster who heads the roald dahl museum and story center . at the museum 's entrance , right after the chocolate bar doors , each child is given an " ideas book . "
in it , children can write whatever comes into their mind during their visit . cutting out and pasting things into the book is also allowed , which is how dahl apparently liked to work himself .
he is said to have used such tools to create senseless and yet wonderfully onomatopoeic words .
dahl collected lists of rhyming words and ideas that he wanted to work into his stories - tales that fascinated children and adults alike , foster said . " we were very keen when we were developing the museum not to have a shrine to dahl .
in fact , there three things that roald dahl hated : museums , beards and speeches , " foster said .
" it 's very important to us not to make it too much like ' what a wonderful man ' - yes , he was but it 's not about that .
it 's about children 's imagination , getting them infused . " bildunterschrift : the museum is located in dahl 's hometown , great missenden a plane crash and a literary career at the center of the museum is a shed that resembles dahl 's real writing studio .
that 's where he used to shut himself in each morning , sinking into his leather armchair . for almost 40 years , dahl penned his stories here with sharp pencils that he had sent specially from the united states , on yellow lined paper .
dahl wanted to be alone during the writing process ; even children were n't allowed here .
he 'd tell them there were wolves in his den so that they would n't disturb him . in addition to the frayed furniture , other strange objects include the end of a femur which surgeons had removed after dahl suffered major spinal and hip injuries when he crashed his biplane in the libyan desert at the beginning of world war ii . in the sort of macabre gesture that would later mark his writing , dahl preserved the femur and used it as a paperweight in his writing studio . it was surviving that serious plane crash in libya that eventually led to dahl 's writing career .
he once told an interviewer that author c.s. forester suggested to dahl that he write about being shot down in the desert .
the story was reportedly bought by a british newspaper and the rest is literary history . ' the adult is the enemy ' dahl 's books are a huge success , many of them international bestsellers , and have been translated into more than 40 languages .
millions of copies of his children 's books have been sold . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the roald dahl museum aims to expand children 's imaginations dahl reportedly frequently said the key to his success was conspiring with children against adults . " it may be simplistic , but it is the way .
parents and schoolteachers are the enemy .
the adult is the enemy of the child because of the awful process of civilizing this thing that when it is born it is an animal with no manners , no moral sense at all , " dahl said in a 1990 interview with british newspaper the independent . amanda conquy , who was a friend of dahl 's and heads the roald dahl foundation in great missenden , said the writer understood that children like to be startled and amazed and appreciate unsavory details . " -lsb- dahl -rsb- had a wicked sense of humor .
i thought he was wonderful .
it was only as an adult that i began to see how difficult he could be , " conquy said .
" but with children he used to say about himself - and i think it was true - he never really grew up .
he had the mind of a child really . " not everyone approved of dahl 's writing , however .
several literary critics slammed his books as antisocial , brutish and anti-feminist .
but conquy insisted that dahl 's books were simply macabre , satirical and timeless .
they deal with shabby , brutal and bigoted adults and they had their own morals , she said . " i think he wanted children to feel from his books that there was hope for them .
if there was good , there was hope for them . " author : michael marek -lrb- sp -rrb- editor : kate bowen send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de forgotten book by margarete boehme to be revived in us germany has a long literary tradition but names like goethe and schiller are likely to spring to mind before margarete boehme 's .
however , her profile is on the rise as one of her most famous works is re-published .
-lrb- 03.11.2010 -rrb- children 's books for muslims in german could foster integration children 's books about christianity abound in german , but muslim children in germany have a tough time finding books about their own religion .
a new publisher is changing that .
-lrb- 19.10.2010 -rrb- author cornelia funke weaves page turners for readers of all ages german author cornelia funke 's books have been translated into 37 languages and are enjoyed by readers in more than 40 countries .
it was the novel " the thief lord " that catapulted her to international fame in 2002 .
-lrb- 09.08.2010 -rrb- feedback what is your favorite book by roald dahl ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
literature looking for a good book ?
book review : rabinowich 's ' splithead ' depicts east-west divide visit the new books in german website podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 11 - jupiter jones are moving on up subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
