stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.12.2010 stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is another winter of discontent for stuttgart having fired jens keller after only 60 days in charge , stuttgart are rolling the dice again with bruno labbadia , formerly of leverkusen and hamburg .
but can he handle the toughest job in german football ? what do jogi loew , ralf rangnick , matthias sammer , giovanni trapattoni and christian gross have in common ?
if you said that they are all successful coaches who have been fired by stuttgart , you 'd be right .
that might be some small consolation to jens keller , who was axed on sunday after stuttgart suffered an unlucky 2-1 loss to hanover .
that defeat left only moenchengladbach between stuttgart and the very bottom of the table .
" we 're stuck deep in the muck , " stuttgart 's technical director , fredi bobic , said after the hanover disappointment .
" i 've got my thoughts about how we 're going to get out of it . "
bobic declined to elaborate on those mental processes , but stuttgart fans at least have a name and a face to pin to them .
the question is : does bruno labbadia - along with gross and keller , stuttgart 's third coach this season - stand a chance at the hardest club in the league to lead ?
plus and minuses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bruno labbadia is going to have to put his thinking cap on bobic may be counting on what might be called the “ labbadia effect . ”
at each of his previous two teams , big bruno 's charges responded well to his tactical instructions and got off to good starts .
a series of wins such as labbadia engineered at leverkusen and hamburg in 2008 and 2009 respectively would probably be enough for stuttgart , whose only goal right now is to avoid relegation .
that 's not out of the question .
stuttgart , who are currently on 12 points , have been on the losing end of a number of controversial refereeing decisions this season and could argue that their current position in the table does n't accurately reflect their quality .
on the other hand , no one would make the case that this is a good team .
the squad has been unable to compensate for the departures of sami khedira and jens lehmann , veteran star mauro camoranesi has spent more time on his tuchus than on the turf , and chemistry between younger and older players is rumored to be quite poor .
that does n't play to labbadia 's strengths .
at both leverkusen and hamburg , he was criticized for being unapproachable and arrogant , and there were unconfirmed rumors about romantic liaisons , or attempts at such , between him and players ' wives .
whatever the truth may be , both teams suffered drastic downward spirals after their hot starts with him in charge , and he departed after less than a year in charge .
now he 's sitting on a true powder keg , a team whose supporters have in the past besieged their own team bus when they 've been disappointed by results .
labbadia 's first task is to win over those fans , and one thing is clear : it ai n't gonna be easy .
the final step toward relegation ?
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stuttgart fans wish the club had n't sold mario gomez if the new coach had any illusions about what he was getting himself into , he needed only surf briefly on the internet to dispel them .
" why labbadia , " one supporter asked on the online forum of the mass circulation bild newspaper .
" he 'll be gone quicker than he can settle on a starting 11 . "
indeed , the overarching tone of the blogosphere was sarcasm .
" the best management in the league has pulled off another brilliant move and hired a much heralded coach guaranteed to bring stability and continuity to the club , " wrote a user on the football forum of die welt newspaper .
" it looks as if stuttgart have finally committed themselves to getting relegated . "
that comment was typical of many others in blaming management for the team 's current misery .
in particular , supporters are unhappy at the club 's penchant for selling stars .
along with khedira , mario gomez and kevin kuranyi are two of the prominent and popular players stuttgart have flogged off in recent years .
if labbadia does n't pan out quickly , stuttgart could be in the hunt for a dubious record - the greatest number of coaches employed by any one club in a single season .
and if bruno does have to go , the odds are that bobic and others within stuttgart 's management will be going with him .
author : jefferson chase editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hanover hit new high with win over struggling stuttgart hanover continued to surpass expectations , rising to second in the standings with a 2-1 win over beleaguered stuttgart .
now , just third from bottom , stuttgart has decided to dump its coach , jens keller .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- ex-amateur coaches at stuttgart , cologne face uphill battle in jens keller and frank schaefer respectively , stuttgart and cologne hope that an in-house promotion will turn the tide .
but former amateur coaches seldom have long-term success in the bundesliga .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- stuttgart need a reality check as gross takes the fall stuttgart packed off its third coach in three seasons when christian gross was shown the door after a woeful start to the season .
but the club 's position is unlikely to improve until deeper problems are resolved .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- feedback will labbadia succeed at stuttgart ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 dw-tv europe live fit & gesund we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
bundesliga picks playing hurt it 's match day 28 in the bundesliga but dw 's tired pundits wish it was all over already ...
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 13.12.2010 uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stop and listen this christmas , says cage against the machine a uk campaign aims to rock the christmas single charts - with the sound of silence .
they 're using experimentalist composer john cage 's masterpiece of silence , 4 ' 33 " , to get people listening to the needs around them . it all started as a joke . last year , a uk campaign succeeded in its aim of preventing the winner of casting show x-factor from becoming christmas number one by encouraging people to help " killing in the name " by us band rage against the machine top the charts . this year , uk art therapy masters student dave hilliard quipped to his friends , " let 's get silence to number one . " " it was meant to be a joke , " julie hilliard , dave hilliard 's wife and co-initiator of cage against the machine -lrb- catm -rrb- , told deutsche welle .
" but it captured the imagination of so many people . " when it comes to getting silence on the charts , the avant-garde work " 4 ' 33 " by american experimental composer john cage -lrb- 1912-1992 -rrb- is the first that comes to mind .
the score calls for any combination of musicians to go on stage and play absolutely nothing for exactly four minutes and 33 seconds .
for some , an agonizing exercise in patience ; for others , ear-opening proof that escape from the unceasing aural bombardment of our multimedia society is , indeed , possible . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john cage was fascinated by incidental sound open your ears the hilliards , along with long-time friend and music pr expert john rogers , are less interested in making a profound artistic statement and keener raising money for a few underfunded charities . starting monday , december 13 , supporters can purchase a specially recorded version of cage 's groundbreaking 1952 work , which included the participation of artists like aeroplane , billy bragg and kooks - though , of course , they ca n't really be heard . they recorded their own version to ensure that the revenue went directly to selected charities , but also because most other editions separate the work 's three movements into three tracks - but only single tracks are eligible for the single charts . revenue from the recordings and from ads on the groups website go to charities like c.a.l.m. , which provides support to young men considering suicide , the british tinnitus association , and organizations that offer music education to underprivileged children . " when you stop talking and you start to look at the world around you , you can see all these other needs that are there , besides your own , " said julie hilliard , adding that the charities they chose particularly reflected their appeal to stop and listen . ' cage would approve ' new york-based john cage expert richard kostelanetz said he did n't think the composer would have objected to the use of his work in this way . " he lived on a very busy avenue and did n't own a record player , because he preferred to listen to the noise outside his house , " kostelanetz told deutsche welle . the cage expert added that the setting of the work is crucial to making it a work of art and that the irony is so much stronger when it is performed by renowned artists - like those involved in catm .
the audience is bound to listen even more intently , knowing what they could be hearing from those artists , if they were actually playing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the black eyed peas are number one this week taking back the charts with more than 80,000 facebook fans as of december 13 , cage against the machine may be well on its way to rocking the uk 's christmas charts . they 'll have stiff competition from black eyed peas , who top this week 's singles chart in the uk with " the time -lrb- dirty bit -rrb- " and from matt cardle , the most recent winner of the uk 's popular casting show , x factor . the media has largely focused on the cage against the machine campaign as a counterpoint to market-tailored pop ballade and , specifically , to x factor .
however , hilliard said she and her husband have nothing against the casting show , but simply are n't interested in watching it . " if you do n't like it , do n't turn it on ; if you do n't like the record , do n't buy it , " she said . and if cage against the machine has its way , christmas eve in the uk will truly be a silent night - or at least one filled with incidental noise . author : kate bowen editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de music hotel brings new beat to berlin berlin 's new music hotel , nhow , combines luxury , design and quality musical facilities .
it hopes to bridge the gap between international and local artists - but the city 's underground scene is n't easily impressed .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- young german pianist unites classical music with world of video games benyamin nuss , 21 , has been wowing audiences in some of europe 's finest concert halls with solo piano interpretations of video game music by nobuo uematsu .
he spoke to deutsche welle about this unusual project .
-lrb- 04.12.2010 -rrb- france to start carte musique digital music subsidy plan france hopes to change young shoppers ' habits by subsidizing the sale of music with a " music card . "
but the government has not yet said which online services people will be able to use to make purchases .
-lrb- 27.10.2010 -rrb- feedback what will you be listening to on christmas ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art meet several artists who live in a small world and miniaturize their work .
the filmmaker the model builder the engraver the painter the photographer podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 11 - jupiter jones are moving on up subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stress tests doubted as ireland suffers from bank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.12.2010 stress tests doubted as ireland suffers from bank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : are the eu 's bank stress tests accurate enough ?
ireland is floundering under the expense of its bank bailout , but irish banks passed the eu-wide stress tests in july .
some now dismiss the tests as nothing more than a ' placebo ' for the market . when the eu-wide bank stress test results were made public in july , skepticism soon followed .
after all , just seven of 91 banks failed , leading some to believe the tests had been too easy .
none of ireland 's banks failed .
yet the country floundered under the sheer expense of bailing out and reforming its financial system .
in private , the chief financial officer of a european bank recently referred to the stress tests conducted over the past year as nothing more than a " placebo for the market . "
gerhard hofmann , a board member of the national association of german cooperative banks -lrb- bvr -rrb- , is skeptical about the accuracy of the tests .
he is n't aware of any cases in which they " actually had a high level of revelatory value , or a high level of predictive power in regards to future problem areas , " he told deutsche welle .
" what is put under stress today is most likely not tomorrow 's problem . "
first public results bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german financial regulator bafin carried out stress tests in germany according to benjamin fischer , a spokesman for german financial regulator bafin , three german banks were subjected to the first european union-wide stress tests in 2009 .
those results were not published .
the number then jumped to 15 in 2010 , although one bank was the subsidiary of an italian bank and was tested by that country 's financial regulator .
the results of these tests were published .
" it was a novelty that the results were made public , " fischer told deutsche welle .
" naturally , it made working on the stress tests more difficult because the attention was significantly more present . "
stress tests , according to fischer , are hypothetical instruments normally used in the banking industry .
" banks and regulators use stress tests as a kind of early-warning system to identify possible weaknesses ahead of time , " he said .
each eu nation carried out a test prescribed by the committee of european banking supervisors -lrb- cebs -rrb- .
while another stress test is likely in 2011 , it remains to be seen whether or not results will be made public .
a spokesman for cebs declined to comment .
according to the central bank of ireland , the irish stress tests were carried out with higher loan loss rates being applied than actually required by cebs .
still , ireland 's finances buckled and its debt rating plummeted as the country scrambled to save banks teetering on the edge of collapse .
ireland will now receive a bailout from the eu and the international monetary fund worth 85 billion euros -lrb- $ 112 billion -rrb- .
banks tested at status quo michael schroeder , an economist with the centre for european economic research in mannheim , said he does n't believe the irish crisis invalidates the cebs stress tests .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : patrick honohan 's central bank of ireland carried out the stress tests in ireland " the banks were tested at status quo ... and at that point they had already passed on some of their problems to the government , " he told deutsche welle .
each individual bank was placed under artificial stress , schroeder says , but a different picture , he argues , would likely emerge if the pressure were applied system-wide .
" the problem with the financial crisis was that many banks had similar portfolios and reacted similarly – in that they wanted to get rid of their portfolios , " he said .
" i do n't believe the tests depicted the crisis situation with complete accuracy . "
schroeder advocates a method of risk analysis called covar -lrb- conditional value at risk -rrb- , which is capable of simulating " how the portfolio of a bank reacts when there is a shock in all other banks . "
in other words , covar can be used to gain insight into chain reactions throughout a financial system .
it is gaining support throughout the financial world , according to schroeder .
in general , he believes , transparency in stress testing is a worthy objective .
" there was a lot of discussion about whether to publicize the results , " schroeder said .
" if the information is reliable and accurately represents specific problems then , yes , i would publicize it .
those who are active in the market and deal in stocks and investment on a large scale should know about it . "
market supplanted by european central bank one possible pitfall is that stress testing can backfire if publicized results turn out to be inaccurate .
bankers are currently fretting over whether ireland and other troubled eu countries will be able to fully repay government bonds .
to play it safe , they often turn to the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to deposit their assets and secure lines of credit .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future of the euro is linked with that of ireland fidel helmer of the hauck & aufhauser bank says industry-wide mistrust affects all players .
banks lend less among themselves , and the supply and demand for money is routed over the ecb instead of the open market .
" i think that deutsche bank , for instance , is under excellent leadership and will fetch excellent results , " he told deutsche welle .
nevertheless , the value of the bank 's stock took a nose dive this year .
that development is something helmer directly attributes to the cebs stress tests .
he said the tests were questionable and so far-reaching that they cast doubt even on healthy institutions .
author : gerhard schneibel / michael braun editor : john blau send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu divided over euro bonds , no increase in bailout funds there was no agreement on plans for joint euro bonds at a meeting of the eurozone finance ministers in brussels on monday , where the eurogroup decided against any increase in the rescue fund for debt-saddled countries .
-lrb- 06.12.2010 -rrb- euro is ' credible , ' not in crisis : trichet ecb president jean-claude trichet has moved to calm jittery financial markets by calling the euro ' credible ' and agreeing to continue the bank 's emergency bond-buying program to prop the struggling eurozone .
-lrb- 03.12.2010 -rrb- irish central bank chief expects ' substantial eu loan ' the head of ireland 's central bank has said the country will likely receive a multi-billion-euro loan to help save the country from financial meltdown .
this comes as an eu / imf mission is in dublin for emergency talks .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- ireland announces sweeping austerity measures to secure bailout the irish government has given details of its most stringent austerity plan ever , aimed at saving 15 billion euros over the next four years .
the cuts are necessary to secure a multi-billion-euro international bailout .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- ireland announces drastic budget cuts as eu bailout is officially approved european union finance ministers formally approved the 85-billion-euro rescue loan for crisis-stricken ireland on tuesday as the country announced the toughest domestic budget in its history .
-lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the irish government unveils a crisis budget -lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- eu leaders want ecb to buy government bonds -lrb- 02.12.2010 -rrb- feedback how much confidence do you have in the eu banking stress tests ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week liquid assets : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live made in germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
the future of motoring 2 : zero-emissions vehicles the crisis in portugal bio-fuels : the debate continues pumps and robots - german technology for fukushima stock exchange today in history 1874 : die fledermaus © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
all i want for christmas is ... -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de christmas -pipe- 13.12.2010 all i want for christmas is ... großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children have left instructions for christmas gift-givers for over a century toothpaste may seem like an unusual item on a christmas wish list - but over a century ago , it was n't so strange .
an exhibition in dortmund unveils the touching and sometimes comical history of holiday wish lists . in some countries , christmas presents are exchanged on the morning of december 25 , while most europeans give gifts on the evening of the 24th .
no matter when they 're unwrapped , it 's hard to imagine christmas without presents . the tradition , however , is relatively new .
it was n't until the end of the 19th century that gift-giving was associated with christmas in germany .
before that , st. nicholas brought presents to well-behaved children on december 6 . with the advent of gifts , it was only inevitable that children would help the givers - real and imagined - out with wish lists . " the development of the christmas gift-giving tradition mainly had to do with the fact that more presents and toys were available as a result of industrialization , " historian isolde parussel told deutsche welle . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a christmas gift table may have looked like this in the 19th century of course , not everyone could afford the new toys , but that did n't keep children from writing out their wishes . old toys made just like new parussel is behind the exhibition " … bring us many nice things , " which is currently on show at the museum of art and cultural history in the western german city of dortmund .
over 100 holiday wish lists are on display , along with decorative gift tables , toys and festive christmas trees from the past century . most of the items were collected from private households following a request published in german newspapers . some of the wish lists are addressed to st. nicholas or santa claus , but many were written to the ' christkind ' - a sprite-like child , usually depicted with blond hair and angelic wings . in one list from 1899 , a young girl hoped for " a dress for -lsb- my doll -rsb- fraenzchen , a set of colored pencils , a sailor 's hat for me " but also " calling cards and a tube of calodont tooth paste . "
at the end of the 19th century , tooth paste in tubes was extremely modern - something extraordinary even for a little girl . as the end of the girl 's letter reveals , gifts were n't necessarily expected to be new .
" and then , dear christkind , -lsb- my dolls -rsb- siegfried and dori need to be taken to the hospital .
dori 's hair is growing very sparsely on her head and her limbs are very droopy .
both of these things need to be fixed , " wrote the girl . despite having to organize presents for so many children , the christkind occasionally found time to write back .
one such letter - composed on a typewriter and dated christmas eve , 1911 - is included in the exhibition ; parussel suspects , of course , that it was written by the parents .
" the angels say that you and -lsb- your sister -rsb- staenzerl were n't very good doll mothers this year , " read the letter : " under these circumstances , entrusting you with a real baby seems to be too much of a responsibility . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : isolde parussel curated the dortmund exhibition apparently , the girls had wished for a sibling - a gift their parents apparently were n't yet willing to provide . some things do n't change the letters and lists offer insights into the everyday lives of various generations .
children from the post-world war ii generation wanted nothing more than a warm hat or a notebook for school .
one short generation later , one girl asked for a knee-length skirt , according to the trend of the time . the most recent wish list in the collection is from 2008 .
jascha from dortmund had cut out pictures from catalogues - complete with price tags - to illustrate his list , which mainly consisted of electronics . jascha 's wishes are expensive , but , when taking the standard of living into account , they 're not necessarily more valuable than the things children asked for a century ago , said parussel . " you ca n't necessarily say that this child is just focused on consumption , " she said .
he put just as much effort into his wish list , writing it neatly and decorating it with colored pencils . " author : sola huelsewig -lrb- kjb -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de toys r ' scarce in german stores toy makers and retailers in germany could n't be happier : christmas shoppers appear to have a near insatiable appetite for toys .
products from traditional european toymakers like lego and playmobil are in high demand .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- racism controversy dampens holland 's sinterklaas tradition children across europe eagerly await the arrival of st. nicholas on december 6 .
but in holland , the tradition has racist implications that the dutch are n't quite willing to give up .
-lrb- 05.12.2010 -rrb- ' dear christkind ' : a german post office answers christmas letters in the small town of engelskirchen , thousands of letters from around the world arrive at a seasonal christmas post office , all addressed to one person .
for over 20 years , postal workers have written back .
-lrb- 24.12.2009 -rrb- feedback do you have a special christmas tradition in your family ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art meet several artists who live in a small world and miniaturize their work .
the filmmaker the model builder the engraver the painter the photographer podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 10 - 1000 robota with a new take on punk subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 13.12.2010 hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients back to first page back 2/2 doctors arrested , charged with plot " the hospital where we are now is witnessing the war from the other side , " he said .
dell 'aira and eight other colleagues , both italian and afghan , were arrested in april by a mixed group of afghan police and british troops .
the nine doctors were accused of participating in a plot to assassinate helmand 's governor , gulab mangal .
" the police claimed that we were handing information to the taliban and that they had even found weapons and explosives in one of our warehouses at the hospital , " the italian doctor said with a rueful smile .
" it 's a real shame what is happening here . "
the arrest came under the aegis of operation moshtarak -lrb- " together " in the afghan dari language -rrb- which was one of innumerable isaf military offensives in the region .
emergency complained that they were denied the establishment of a humanitarian corridor to evacuate the wounded from marjah , a nearby village which was heavily shelled for months .
finally , the detainees were released after nine days in jail without charges .
immediately afterward , gino strada , who founded emergency , said that the attempt to discredit his organization had failed .
he said emergency in afghanistan , especially in helmand province , was " an uncomfortable witness to what the coalition forces are doing here . "
yet more innocent victims the number of patients treated daily in the emergency hospital depends on how busy it is from day to day , said luca radaelli , one of emergency 's nurses .
" we have treated 400 patients in the past two months , but numbers can vary greatly depending on the day .
we can get 20 in one day , or just three , " he said .
after spending a day at emergency 's admission desk , the testimonies of the patients start to sound painfully familiar .
the location of the accident , and the means - gunshot , ied , mortar attack , - may change , but the victims ' profile is often recurrent : civilian , under 14 years old , with amputated limbs .
vague details , serious consequences like many others here , 15-year old shepherd ziacho still does n't know who shot off the rounds of ammunition that tore off his two legs .
" i was walking my flock in greshek -lrb- helmand -rrb- .
i remember i sat down to rest when i spotted a mine nearby .
i also saw a helicopter over me so i 'm not sure what caused the explosion , " he said .
next to him , 12-year-old mohamed listened to ziacho ´ s testimony with a blank stare .
in a low and breathy voice , he explained that he was on the roof of his house when he noticed an impact on his body .
" when they brought him here his liver was stuck onto his lungs .
it 's really a miracle that he 's still alive , " said radaelli .
bullet wounds are the most common cause of admission in this hospital , he added .
abdulwahid lost his leg in the middle of the crossfire .
" i was working in my farm when the battle began , " recalled the villager from musa qala .
" the fighting lasted between one and two hours .
in the end i felt a sharp pain in my chest and leg .
i could n't tell where the shot came from . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : abdulraziq 's meeting with an ied changed his life - and took his limb indeed it is often difficult to know just who is behind each attack in helmand province .
in addition to american and british soldiers , there are also estonians , canadians , danish , georgians and arabs from bahrain fighting in helmand .
and of course there are the taliban , or drug smugglers or , simply , road bandits .
mahmud khan , a patient at emergency , is a pashtun who had just had his right kidney removed . " i was shot when i was driving across delaram -lrb- nimroz -rrb- .
they were simply thieves who wanted my motorbike .
i wish i had given it to them from the very beginning , " he lamented .
and 12-year-old quadratullah , lying in the bed near khan , explained how he ended up in the hospital .
unfortunate house search " back in my village we spotted some people getting into an empty house .
we were most curious so we decided to see what was inside , " said quadratullah .
" i went first but i had to push the door hard because it was blocked .
then something exploded ... when i woke up here , my father told me it happened to be a warehouse where the taliban stored their weapons and explosives . "
quadratullah tells the story with the composure and the distance of somebody who has not yet had time to reflect on what has happened .
his apparent state of shock seems like a mechanism to prevent him from thinking about what kind of life awaits a kid from afghanistan who 's lost his right eye and arm , and both his legs , in a seemingly endless war .
" one has to get used to this suffering in order to survive here , but it is not easy , " said radaelli said , visibly moved .
his six-months rotation is almost over and the ngo requires its workers to rest for at least a few weeks before resuming their jobs - a well deserved oxygen break before diving again into the horror of the afghan war .
author : karlos zurutuza editor : jennifer abramsohn back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opposition blasts visit to afghanistan by defense minister and wife german defense minister karl theodor zu guttenberg is in afghanistan on an unannounced visit with his wife stephanie .
it ’ s the first time a german defense minister is being accompanied by his wife to a warzone .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- local builders risk losing out in afghanistan 's helmand province us marines and local businessmen are laying down the foundations for reconstruction in one of the taliban 's biggest strongholds in afghanistan .
but helmand is likely to remain a place where many die and a few get rich .
-lrb- 16.10.2010 -rrb- operation to remove taliban from marjah sends thousands fleeing the civilian population of marjah , a farming community in helmand , afghanistan , are fleeing ahead of a huge nato operation designed to defeat the entrenched taliban in the region and restore government control .
-lrb- 10.02.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the ngos on the ground in afghanistan can sigificantly impact the war there ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
weapons deals uk ministers criticized for allowing weapons exports to african and middle eastern regimes .
listen to the report bundles of booty where do dictators stash their cash ?
asset trackers use ' ladders ' to follow the money .
listen to the report .
transatlantic voices germany 's gremlins berlin needs an overdue debate on what the responsibility to protect means for germany and europe .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.04.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 13.12.2010 oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eurozone states have to stop spending money they do n't have and start to cut debt the oecd urged eurozone states to start cutting down their debt loads and correct economic imbalances as soon as possible .
its chief economist gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds , calling them a " good idea " . the organization for economic co-operation and development -lrb- oecd -rrb- warned the 16 eurozone member states on monday that they need to start cutting their heavy debt loads and adopt tough measures to correct economic imbalances . the oecd also urged them to install a permanent crisis resolution mechanism which would force nations to carry out reforms in order to receive aid .
in its latest survey , the oecd predicted the eurozone 's economy would grow by 1.7 percent this year before accelerating to 2 percent in 2011 .
and although the oecd said the eurozone enjoyed a " gradual and sustained recovery " from last year 's steep recession , it also predicted that the pace of recovery would likely be muted .
eurozone states should begin to cut debts by 2011 the latest " fiscal consolidation is the immediate priority to stabilize the public finances and should begin by 2011 at the latest in all countries , " the oecd said in a statement .
oecd chief economist pier carlo padoan acknowledged that it took economists like him too long to understand the underlying reasons for the euro crisis .
" we economists have to plead guilty to that because we now discovered that while looking at -lrb- the -rrb- fiscal -lrb- situation -rrb- that needs to be looked at , we neglected other elements that now we know prove to be extremely important , " he said .
the crisis was caused by an economic imbalance , which had always existed in europe , he added .
the common currency only served to exacerbate that fact .
according to daniel gros , head of the center for european policy studies , one has to go back about 20 years to find the root of the current crisis .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms " will boost growth , said padoan " the problems we have been experiencing at the european periphery go back to german reunification .
at that time , germany experienced a construction and consumption boom which led to a rise in interest rates , while the rest of europe was moving in the opposite direction , " he said .
" beginning in 1995 , it was germany that had to watch its finances while other nations , thanks to the global credit boom , were spending more freely .
now the tables are turning again . "
the massive public debt of practically all of the oecd 's member states , is one of the main problems , said chief economist padoan .
" the first , best solution for countries is strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms to boost growth .
we think this is the way forward . "
financial markets may not grant greece enough time to implement reforms however , eurozone states appear to be moving in the right direction .
" the reforms we are currently witnessing in greece and elsewhere will take effect at some point , " said gros .
" the question we 're asking right now is whether the financial markets will give those countries the time they need to implement the reforms .
germany had enough time .
greece may possibly not . "
this is a scenario no one wants to imagine .
oecd chief economist padoan gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds .
" imagining that there is a european dimension to financial markets , including bond markets , is a good idea , " he said .
author : christoph hasselbach -lrb- db / sst / dpa / afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland bailout reignites fears about the future of the euro germany has seen a number of its own currencies come and go : the deutschmark , the reichsmark and , before that , the mark .
now some analysts are grumbling that the euro may be on its way out too .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- debt crisis exposes the euro 's flaws but divorce is not an option like marriage partners , eurozone nations fight about money .
germany grumbles about paying for the profligacy of others , but pays , since sticking together is the lesser of evils , says die zeit 's josef joffe .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- eurogroup finance ministers agree details of euro safety net eurozone finance ministers have signed off on a 500-billion-euro safety fund to stave off future crises within the single currency zone .
the announcement comes amid concerns over the strength and stability of the euro .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- feedback what should germany do in order to cut its public debt ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living in germany listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 13.12.2010 hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamed does n't know who fired the bullets that hit him a visit to the two hospitals in the war-torn helmand region of afghanistan exposes the horrors that innocent civilians , so-called collateral damage caught in the crossfire , experience in modern wartime . " no weapons allowed beyond this point , " reads a sign at the entrance of boost hospital in lashkar gah , afghanistan .
such advice may be redundant elsewhere , but here at boost it is as much a declaration of principle as a regulation .
lashkar gah is the capital of helmand province - one of afghanistan 's biggest battlefields .
the region may look like a wasteland but it is still able to produce more heroin than anywhere else in the rest of the world .
in a place like this , travelling often means taking roads that may be laid with explosives , or shelled by helicopters .
it 's little wonder , then , that common health problems often become real emergencies .
no questions asked " we do not ask anyone which side they belong to , or who injured them .
our work is limited to offering free medical care to anyone who comes to the hospital , " says stefano argenziano .
he is the project coordinator for doctors without borders - known by its french acronym msf - in helmand province .
accordingly , nobody at boost speaks of " taliban terrorists ; " they use the term " government opposition " instead .
there are more than 2,000 ngos registered in kabul , but just a handful of these have a field presence .
msf is one of those rare groups .
it relies solely on private funds and , unlike many other groups , does not have paid soldiers protecting the safety of its staff .
even the usual barbed wire and sandbags are n't to be found at the camp where msf staff lodges .
" we try not to be in the same place as foreign troops .
nonetheless , our best calling card is our work , " argenziano said .
" we have earned the respect of local people because everybody knows what we are all about . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a sign tells you not to take your gun into the hospital msf resumed its work in afghanistan after an absence of five years , following the murder of five of its staff in badghis province in 2004 .
their humanitarian mission in lashkar gah , supporting boost hospital , was launched in november , 2009 .
boost is one of the two reference hospitals in the war-torn south of the country , alongside the one in kandahar .
a reference hospital is the term used by the world health organization for hospitals that accept complex cases for cutting-edge diagnosis and treatment .
ilona is a nurse who arrived in afghanistan from germany two years ago .
today , she moves gently but swiftly through the sea of blue burkhas in the female section of boost hospital .
patients from all over " many of the cases we handle deal with malnutrition in infants after drinking cow or goat milk .
their mothers are anemic and ca n't breast-feed , so the children suffer from chronic gastroenteritis because they are unable to process the animal milk , " she said .
there are also afghan nurses at boost , and assadullah - a native of the relatively peaceful northern region mazar , is one of them .
" we also treat those hospitalized for an overdose of heroin or simply the most direct victims of this war , " she said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : did the british wound - then save- ihmatullah ? -lrb- right -rrb- civilian casualties and deaths continue to increase in afghanistan , despite a commitment by nato troops to avoid them .
un figures suggest isaf troops are causing less " collateral damage " - army-speak for injured civilians - but insurgents continue to target civilians , so casualties are rising .
a un report on civilian casualties in afghanistan , released in the summer of 2010 , showed civilian deaths and injuries in the country had increased by 31 percent from a year earlier , to 3,268 . the un attributed 76 per cent of these incidents to insurgents – up from 53 per cent in 2009 .
mistaken for taliban ?
at boost , msf is primarily responsible for pediatrics and maternity .
but its not hard to find direct victims of the war as well .
take sharifullah , for instance .
a 16-year-old boy , he was shot in the stomach during the celebrations of the end of ramadan .
his older brother , abdullhaq , says he believes the wound came from british troops .
" it came from a british convoy .
the kids began to run alongside the road .
the soldiers probably took them for a gang of talibs and shot , " abdullhaq said .
he added that four months ago , four children in his village were killed the same way .
assadullah , who was briefing sharifullah on how to walk with crutches , said such cases of injury via coalition fire were " unfortunately very common " at boost .
ihmatullah , a 16-year-old shepherd from musa qala , was also possibly injured by coalition fire .
he was hit by rocket shrapnel one night while he was sleeping outdoors .
according to his father , abdulwazid , it was the british who wounded his son - then stabilized him and brought him to boost .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : six-year-old daudchan lost a leg ; his brother lost two laura mendikoa is an experienced nurse from mexico who has worked around the world , doing stints in liberia , somalia , kenya and mexico - and now helmland .
" back home life is doubtless more comfortable but it 's much more rewarding here , " she said .
mendikoa 's job one recent day was treating abdulraziq , a 13-year old from neighboring farah province who was admitted three weeks earlier after he had a life-changing encounter with an ied , or improvised explosive device .
he lost an eye and his right hand in the blast .
ieds and other tragedies sudden tragedy also changed the lives of six-year-old daudchan and his four-year-old brother , mahmadullah .
daudchan lost his leg , and his brother lost both legs .
" they were travelling with their father on a motorcycle when they had the misfortune of running over an ied , " the children 's grandfather said , holding daudchan 's bandaged stump .
" my son was luckier : he has only lost the toes of his right foot , " he added in a resigned voice .
in the building adjacent to boost hospital , an italian ngo callled emergency runs a hospital that specializes in treating the war-wounded , specializing in victims of land mines .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : doctor matteo dell 'aira was arrested and held in afghanistan at the entrance one friday , a smiling child gave his three-fingered hand to a visitor to shake .
but the child was no longer a patient - he was there to see his brother .
friday is not only a day of prayer , it 's a day to visit wounded relatives in the hospital .
the emergency hospital in lashkar gah has been in operation since 2004 , and it is the third one the milan-based ngo runs in afghanistan .
the other two are in the northern districts of panjshir and kabul , open since 1999 and 2001 respectively .
not surprisingly , the one in lashkar gah is the busiest of the three .
around 90 percent of the patients admitted are civilians - and 40 percent of those are children , according to matteo dell 'aira , the local medical coordinator .
read more on the plight of afghan civilians 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opposition blasts visit to afghanistan by defense minister and wife german defense minister karl theodor zu guttenberg is in afghanistan on an unannounced visit with his wife stephanie .
it ’ s the first time a german defense minister is being accompanied by his wife to a warzone .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- local builders risk losing out in afghanistan 's helmand province us marines and local businessmen are laying down the foundations for reconstruction in one of the taliban 's biggest strongholds in afghanistan .
but helmand is likely to remain a place where many die and a few get rich .
-lrb- 16.10.2010 -rrb- operation to remove taliban from marjah sends thousands fleeing the civilian population of marjah , a farming community in helmand , afghanistan , are fleeing ahead of a huge nato operation designed to defeat the entrenched taliban in the region and restore government control .
-lrb- 10.02.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the ngos on the ground in afghanistan can sigificantly impact the war there ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
caucasus violence explodes in the republic of dagestan amid militants ' efforts to create a muslim nation .
listen to the report .
bundles of booty where do dictators stash their cash ?
asset trackers use ' ladders ' to follow the money .
listen to the report .
transatlantic voices germany 's gremlins berlin needs an overdue debate on what the responsibility to protect means for germany and europe .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
all i want for christmas is ... -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de christmas -pipe- 13.12.2010 all i want for christmas is ... großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children have left instructions for christmas gift-givers for over a century toothpaste may seem like an unusual item on a christmas wish list - but over a century ago , it was n't so strange .
an exhibition in dortmund unveils the touching and sometimes comical history of holiday wish lists . in some countries , christmas presents are exchanged on the morning of december 25 , while most europeans give gifts on the evening of the 24th .
no matter when they 're unwrapped , it 's hard to imagine christmas without presents . the tradition , however , is relatively new .
it was n't until the end of the 19th century that gift-giving was associated with christmas in germany .
before that , st. nicholas brought presents to well-behaved children on december 6 . with the advent of gifts , it was only inevitable that children would help the givers - real and imagined - out with wish lists . " the development of the christmas gift-giving tradition mainly had to do with the fact that more presents and toys were available as a result of industrialization , " historian isolde parussel told deutsche welle . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a christmas gift table may have looked like this in the 19th century of course , not everyone could afford the new toys , but that did n't keep children from writing out their wishes . old toys made just like new parussel is behind the exhibition " … bring us many nice things , " which is currently on show at the museum of art and cultural history in the western german city of dortmund .
over 100 holiday wish lists are on display , along with decorative gift tables , toys and festive christmas trees from the past century . most of the items were collected from private households following a request published in german newspapers . some of the wish lists are addressed to st. nicholas or santa claus , but many were written to the ' christkind ' - a sprite-like child , usually depicted with blond hair and angelic wings . in one list from 1899 , a young girl hoped for " a dress for -lsb- my doll -rsb- fraenzchen , a set of colored pencils , a sailor 's hat for me " but also " calling cards and a tube of calodont tooth paste . "
at the end of the 19th century , tooth paste in tubes was extremely modern - something extraordinary even for a little girl . as the end of the girl 's letter reveals , gifts were n't necessarily expected to be new .
" and then , dear christkind , -lsb- my dolls -rsb- siegfried and dori need to be taken to the hospital .
dori 's hair is growing very sparsely on her head and her limbs are very droopy .
both of these things need to be fixed , " wrote the girl . despite having to organize presents for so many children , the christkind occasionally found time to write back .
one such letter - composed on a typewriter and dated christmas eve , 1911 - is included in the exhibition ; parussel suspects , of course , that it was written by the parents .
" the angels say that you and -lsb- your sister -rsb- staenzerl were n't very good doll mothers this year , " read the letter : " under these circumstances , entrusting you with a real baby seems to be too much of a responsibility . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : isolde parussel curated the dortmund exhibition apparently , the girls had wished for a sibling - a gift their parents apparently were n't yet willing to provide . some things do n't change the letters and lists offer insights into the everyday lives of various generations .
children from the post-world war ii generation wanted nothing more than a warm hat or a notebook for school .
one short generation later , one girl asked for a knee-length skirt , according to the trend of the time . the most recent wish list in the collection is from 2008 .
jascha from dortmund had cut out pictures from catalogues - complete with price tags - to illustrate his list , which mainly consisted of electronics . jascha 's wishes are expensive , but , when taking the standard of living into account , they 're not necessarily more valuable than the things children asked for a century ago , said parussel . " you ca n't necessarily say that this child is just focused on consumption , " she said .
he put just as much effort into his wish list , writing it neatly and decorating it with colored pencils . " author : sola huelsewig -lrb- kjb -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de toys r ' scarce in german stores toy makers and retailers in germany could n't be happier : christmas shoppers appear to have a near insatiable appetite for toys .
products from traditional european toymakers like lego and playmobil are in high demand .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- racism controversy dampens holland 's sinterklaas tradition children across europe eagerly await the arrival of st. nicholas on december 6 .
but in holland , the tradition has racist implications that the dutch are n't quite willing to give up .
-lrb- 05.12.2010 -rrb- ' dear christkind ' : a german post office answers christmas letters in the small town of engelskirchen , thousands of letters from around the world arrive at a seasonal christmas post office , all addressed to one person .
for over 20 years , postal workers have written back .
-lrb- 24.12.2009 -rrb- feedback do you have a special christmas tradition in your family ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski clip no. 9 - the bonny situation subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : online vigilantes have taken to their keyboards following the arrest in the netherlands of two teenagers involved in last week 's distributed denial of service attacks against mastercard , lawyers tell young hackers to be aware of the law . on saturday , a second dutch teenager , 19 , was arrested for having been part of a cyberattack that targeted the dutch public prosecutor 's website .
the prosecutor 's site became a target after the dutch prosecutor arrested another dutch teenager , 16 , who had joined an online " hacktivist " attack in the name of wikileaks .
this is just the latest in a series of attacks against perceived enemies of wikileaks largely by a group of its supporters , a shadowy online vigilante group that calls itself anonymous .
" any individual , organization , corporation , and / or government entity which supports freedom of speech and a free internet is an ally of anonymous , " the organization said on its website . " if you work to suppress freedom of expression and a free internet your efforts will be halted . "
the group is more like a semi-controlled herd rather than a traditional heirarchical organization - it does not have clear leadership or direction .
previously , it targeted the church of scientology and the website of the recording industry association of america .
but now that some have been caught for their alleged crimes , it may serve as a legal warning shot to those who feel that they can hide in this hacktivist huddle .
misused technology this time around , in response to the wikileaks case , anonymous followers have been using a computer application known as low orbit ion canon -lrb- loic -rrb- .
using this software , these hacktivists , managed to temporarily disable a number of major financial companý websites , including mastercard 's .
the software used in the attacks was originally designed to help protect websites by testing their penetrability , but when pointed at an unsuspecting site it has the reverse effect .
when used en masse , it is a crude but simple way to create a ddos , or distributed denial of service attack , which floods websites with high level of artificial traffic , making them temporarily slow or more often , unusable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wikileaks founder julian assange , has neither condoned nor condemned the denial of service attacks eddy willems , the spokesperson for tthe european expert group for it security told deutsche welle that there is n't much to the application , which he describes as a " pretty screen " with some buttons to press .
yet the flood module , which crafts packets to send to the target to deal with , can be quite debilitating .
" when you get enough people doing this , " he said , " something has to give .
in this case it 's the targets ' websites . "
the war is not over if anonymous is to be believed , they will keep on bringing these kinds of online attacks as long as there are enough wikileaks supporters on board to bring it about .
as far as they are concerned , it is a matter of principle .
but legal experts are now warning hot-blooded young activists to be aware of where their principle might land them , for to use loic to launch an attack is to misuse it , and that can have very serious consequences .
" users are putting themselves at risk , " willems continued .
" they are not real cyber criminals and they do n't realize that they could be sent to prison for this kind of thing . "
this is the same type of attack that was used against estonia in 2007 , although the estonian one did not involve the use of a software application , but rather through more organized botnets .
estonian government officials suspected that the russian government was somehow involved in attacking estonian financial and political websites , but in the end , only one estonian citizen was punished , who had to pay a relatively small fine .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mastercard was one of the hacktivists ' targets in some cases , finding users is not difficult as was the case of the 19-year-old dutch teenager who was arrested on saturday - as he had neglected to mask his ip address , making it relatively simple for law enforcement to find him .
depending on the protective measures users take , its perpetrators can be easily traced within the space of a day or even just a couple of hours , something which begs the question as to why anonymous has chosen the approach it has .
one suggestion is that the loic application is easy to come by and easy to use , while another is simply that hacktivists are naive .
risky business while the first dutch teenager was released , the younger boy remains in detention over what a spokesman for the dutch prosecutors described as potentially more serious violations .
some observers believe the two boys will be among a handful likely to be singled out and held up as a deterrent to more ddos attacks of this nature .
however , izaz ali , a british attorney specializing in internet law , told deutsche welle that in the case of britain there could be more wide-spread arrests .
" we 're talking here about the computer misuse act , " he said .
" the government will be forcing the police to look into this . "
using loic in a similar fashion may also violate similar statutes in germany and the netherlands .
damage limitation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future for blue-eyed hackers ?
contrary to some reports , ali says it is not illegal to download the software , as long as it is not used for anything other than it was originally intended .
" it is no different from using microsoft word to write something that causes damage to someone else , a computer virus for example . "
damage is the main issue here - if these attacks were simply a case of tit-for-tat that did not affect the possibility to legitimately use affected sites , the lawyer says it would be a different story .
in other words , ali advocates actual old-fashioned street protests to protest their cause in time-honored style .
" do it the old way , " he said , adding that these kinds of modern cyber attacks are harmful to people who might even share the same views .
" they see they are showing people that the leaks are a good thing , but they are going to cause problems for a lot of people , and this is a bad thing . "
reporter : tamsin walker editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- dutch police arrest hacker over alleged cyber attacks hackers have been waging cyber war on the websites of opponents of wikileaks , saying they 're fighting for a " free and open " internet .
dutch police have arrested a teenager accused of taking part in the attacks .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts contrary to oft-stated claims , the wikileaks cables show no huge credibility gap between official us policies and what diplomats write in confidential cables , say experts .
that doesn ’ t hold true for some other countries .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- australia offers support to wikileaks founder , operation payback begins canberra announced it will offer consular support to wikileaks founder julian assange who 's being held in britain .
meanwhile , hackers shut down the web sites of companies that cut business ties with wikileaks .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- feedback what should happen to those who perpetrate denial of service attacks ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards voting is underway at the bobs - deutsche welle 's annual blog contest .
cast your ballot social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 13.12.2010 hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamed does n't know who fired the bullets that hit him a visit to the two hospitals in the war-torn helmand region of afghanistan exposes the horrors that innocent civilians , so-called collateral damage caught in the crossfire , experience in modern wartime . " no weapons allowed beyond this point , " reads a sign at the entrance of boost hospital in lashkar gah , afghanistan .
such advice may be redundant elsewhere , but here at boost it is as much a declaration of principle as a regulation .
lashkar gah is the capital of helmand province - one of afghanistan 's biggest battlefields .
the region may look like a wasteland but it is still able to produce more heroin than anywhere else in the rest of the world .
in a place like this , travelling often means taking roads that may be laid with explosives , or shelled by helicopters .
it 's little wonder , then , that common health problems often become real emergencies .
no questions asked " we do not ask anyone which side they belong to , or who injured them .
our work is limited to offering free medical care to anyone who comes to the hospital , " says stefano argenziano .
he is the project coordinator for doctors without borders - known by its french acronym msf - in helmand province .
accordingly , nobody at boost speaks of " taliban terrorists ; " they use the term " government opposition " instead .
there are more than 2,000 ngos registered in kabul , but just a handful of these have a field presence .
msf is one of those rare groups .
it relies solely on private funds and , unlike many other groups , does not have paid soldiers protecting the safety of its staff .
even the usual barbed wire and sandbags are n't to be found at the camp where msf staff lodges .
" we try not to be in the same place as foreign troops .
nonetheless , our best calling card is our work , " argenziano said .
" we have earned the respect of local people because everybody knows what we are all about . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a sign tells you not to take your gun into the hospital msf resumed its work in afghanistan after an absence of five years , following the murder of five of its staff in badghis province in 2004 .
their humanitarian mission in lashkar gah , supporting boost hospital , was launched in november , 2009 .
boost is one of the two reference hospitals in the war-torn south of the country , alongside the one in kandahar .
a reference hospital is the term used by the world health organization for hospitals that accept complex cases for cutting-edge diagnosis and treatment .
ilona is a nurse who arrived in afghanistan from germany two years ago .
today , she moves gently but swiftly through the sea of blue burkhas in the female section of boost hospital .
patients from all over " many of the cases we handle deal with malnutrition in infants after drinking cow or goat milk .
their mothers are anemic and ca n't breast-feed , so the children suffer from chronic gastroenteritis because they are unable to process the animal milk , " she said .
there are also afghan nurses at boost , and assadullah - a native of the relatively peaceful northern region mazar , is one of them .
" we also treat those hospitalized for an overdose of heroin or simply the most direct victims of this war , " she said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : did the british wound - then save- ihmatullah ? -lrb- right -rrb- civilian casualties and deaths continue to increase in afghanistan , despite a commitment by nato troops to avoid them .
un figures suggest isaf troops are causing less " collateral damage " - army-speak for injured civilians - but insurgents continue to target civilians , so casualties are rising .
a un report on civilian casualties in afghanistan , released in the summer of 2010 , showed civilian deaths and injuries in the country had increased by 31 percent from a year earlier , to 3,268 . the un attributed 76 per cent of these incidents to insurgents – up from 53 per cent in 2009 .
mistaken for taliban ?
at boost , msf is primarily responsible for pediatrics and maternity .
but its not hard to find direct victims of the war as well .
take sharifullah , for instance .
a 16-year-old boy , he was shot in the stomach during the celebrations of the end of ramadan .
his older brother , abdullhaq , says he believes the wound came from british troops .
" it came from a british convoy .
the kids began to run alongside the road .
the soldiers probably took them for a gang of talibs and shot , " abdullhaq said .
he added that four months ago , four children in his village were killed the same way .
assadullah , who was briefing sharifullah on how to walk with crutches , said such cases of injury via coalition fire were " unfortunately very common " at boost .
ihmatullah , a 16-year-old shepherd from musa qala , was also possibly injured by coalition fire .
he was hit by rocket shrapnel one night while he was sleeping outdoors .
according to his father , abdulwazid , it was the british who wounded his son - then stabilized him and brought him to boost .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : six-year-old daudchan lost a leg ; his brother lost two laura mendikoa is an experienced nurse from mexico who has worked around the world , doing stints in liberia , somalia , kenya and mexico - and now helmland .
" back home life is doubtless more comfortable but it 's much more rewarding here , " she said .
mendikoa 's job one recent day was treating abdulraziq , a 13-year old from neighboring farah province who was admitted three weeks earlier after he had a life-changing encounter with an ied , or improvised explosive device .
he lost an eye and his right hand in the blast .
ieds and other tragedies sudden tragedy also changed the lives of six-year-old daudchan and his four-year-old brother , mahmadullah .
daudchan lost his leg , and his brother lost both legs .
" they were travelling with their father on a motorcycle when they had the misfortune of running over an ied , " the children 's grandfather said , holding daudchan 's bandaged stump .
" my son was luckier : he has only lost the toes of his right foot , " he added in a resigned voice .
in the building adjacent to boost hospital , an italian ngo callled emergency runs a hospital that specializes in treating the war-wounded , specializing in victims of land mines .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : doctor matteo dell 'aira was arrested and held in afghanistan at the entrance one friday , a smiling child gave his three-fingered hand to a visitor to shake .
but the child was no longer a patient - he was there to see his brother .
friday is not only a day of prayer , it 's a day to visit wounded relatives in the hospital .
the emergency hospital in lashkar gah has been in operation since 2004 , and it is the third one the milan-based ngo runs in afghanistan .
the other two are in the northern districts of panjshir and kabul , open since 1999 and 2001 respectively .
not surprisingly , the one in lashkar gah is the busiest of the three .
around 90 percent of the patients admitted are civilians - and 40 percent of those are children , according to matteo dell 'aira , the local medical coordinator .
read more on the plight of afghan civilians 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opposition blasts visit to afghanistan by defense minister and wife german defense minister karl theodor zu guttenberg is in afghanistan on an unannounced visit with his wife stephanie .
it ’ s the first time a german defense minister is being accompanied by his wife to a warzone .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- local builders risk losing out in afghanistan 's helmand province us marines and local businessmen are laying down the foundations for reconstruction in one of the taliban 's biggest strongholds in afghanistan .
but helmand is likely to remain a place where many die and a few get rich .
-lrb- 16.10.2010 -rrb- operation to remove taliban from marjah sends thousands fleeing the civilian population of marjah , a farming community in helmand , afghanistan , are fleeing ahead of a huge nato operation designed to defeat the entrenched taliban in the region and restore government control .
-lrb- 10.02.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the ngos on the ground in afghanistan can sigificantly impact the war there ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 13.12.2010 oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eurozone states have to stop spending money they do n't have and start to cut debt the oecd urged eurozone states to start cutting down their debt loads and correct economic imbalances as soon as possible .
its chief economist gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds , calling them a " good idea " . the organization for economic co-operation and development -lrb- oecd -rrb- warned the 16 eurozone member states on monday that they need to start cutting their heavy debt loads and adopt tough measures to correct economic imbalances . the oecd also urged them to install a permanent crisis resolution mechanism which would force nations to carry out reforms in order to receive aid .
in its latest survey , the oecd predicted the eurozone 's economy would grow by 1.7 percent this year before accelerating to 2 percent in 2011 .
and although the oecd said the eurozone enjoyed a " gradual and sustained recovery " from last year 's steep recession , it also predicted that the pace of recovery would likely be muted .
eurozone states should begin to cut debts by 2011 the latest " fiscal consolidation is the immediate priority to stabilize the public finances and should begin by 2011 at the latest in all countries , " the oecd said in a statement .
oecd chief economist pier carlo padoan acknowledged that it took economists like him too long to understand the underlying reasons for the euro crisis .
" we economists have to plead guilty to that because we now discovered that while looking at -lrb- the -rrb- fiscal -lrb- situation -rrb- that needs to be looked at , we neglected other elements that now we know prove to be extremely important , " he said .
the crisis was caused by an economic imbalance , which had always existed in europe , he added .
the common currency only served to exacerbate that fact .
according to daniel gros , head of the center for european policy studies , one has to go back about 20 years to find the root of the current crisis .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms " will boost growth , said padoan " the problems we have been experiencing at the european periphery go back to german reunification .
at that time , germany experienced a construction and consumption boom which led to a rise in interest rates , while the rest of europe was moving in the opposite direction , " he said .
" beginning in 1995 , it was germany that had to watch its finances while other nations , thanks to the global credit boom , were spending more freely .
now the tables are turning again . "
the massive public debt of practically all of the oecd 's member states , is one of the main problems , said chief economist padoan .
" the first , best solution for countries is strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms to boost growth .
we think this is the way forward . "
financial markets may not grant greece enough time to implement reforms however , eurozone states appear to be moving in the right direction .
" the reforms we are currently witnessing in greece and elsewhere will take effect at some point , " said gros .
" the question we 're asking right now is whether the financial markets will give those countries the time they need to implement the reforms .
germany had enough time .
greece may possibly not . "
this is a scenario no one wants to imagine .
oecd chief economist padoan gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds .
" imagining that there is a european dimension to financial markets , including bond markets , is a good idea , " he said .
author : christoph hasselbach -lrb- db / sst / dpa / afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland bailout reignites fears about the future of the euro germany has seen a number of its own currencies come and go : the deutschmark , the reichsmark and , before that , the mark .
now some analysts are grumbling that the euro may be on its way out too .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- debt crisis exposes the euro 's flaws but divorce is not an option like marriage partners , eurozone nations fight about money .
germany grumbles about paying for the profligacy of others , but pays , since sticking together is the lesser of evils , says die zeit 's josef joffe .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- eurogroup finance ministers agree details of euro safety net eurozone finance ministers have signed off on a 500-billion-euro safety fund to stave off future crises within the single currency zone .
the announcement comes amid concerns over the strength and stability of the euro .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- feedback what should germany do in order to cut its public debt ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live popxport we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press opinion : wikileaks ' latest release is a diplomatic waterloo africa -pipe- 13.12.2010 wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell gained information on all aspects of nigeria 's oil business the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria . leaked us diplomatic cables from last year , carried by a number of international newspapers and magazines , show that royal dutch shell - among the major oil producers in nigeria - have infiltrated key nigerian ministries and have been using links to us officials to gain information on rival oil companies in the country , and the movements and objectives of militants in the niger delta region .
shell 's level of penetration into the governmental structure of nigeria - one of the world 's largest oil exporters - have given the company access to politicians and decision-makers at the highest level , providing it with insider knowledge of all movements and negotiations within those ministries .
according to dr. heinz jockers , a nigeria expert and a member of the eu election observation mission to nigeria , shell has personnel in the finance , interior , national planning , defense , environment , energy and foreign affairs ministries as well as influence over a number of presidential advisers , parliamentarians , governors , and high-ranked tribal rulers .
high level infiltration in major ministeries and oil-producing states " shell operatives - although they are unofficially employed by the company - have infiltrated the majority of the most important ministries in the nigerian government , " jockers told deutsche welle .
" they will of course also have their people in the ministries of the main oil-producing states . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell used nigerian sources to help secure its interests jockers said that the main aim of the shell operatives would be to gain information on everything which could in one way or the other affect the company 's business .
" areas of interest for these people would be the position of other competitors , be it companies or countries ; their offers regarding oil deals in nigeria , the pricing scale for oil in the country , and the level of governmental support for security , " he said .
the leaked cables show that shell had obtained information that nigeria had invited bids for oil concessions from china and was concerned at the possibility of increased competition from the people 's republic .
they also show that shell executives requested confirmation from us officials on russian gas giant gazprom 's interest in nigeria after information was obtained from ministerial channels .
jockers added that the practice of infiltration was so widespread that it is highly likely that other large companies have embedded personnel in governmental offices as this was the only way that advantages in business could be gained in nigeria .
" these could include : julius berger , chevron , hochtief , siemens , peugeot , haliburton , and mercedes , " he said .
" you have to remember : nigeria is a chaotic and highly corrupt country .
to do business there , you have to play the game . "
shell contacted us officials over delta militant threat bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell wanted us help with getting information on militants ann pickard , shell 's top executive in nigeria , was also revealed to have spoken to us officials in 2008 about the threat of militants in the niger delta which had , at its peak in 2006 , shut down a quarter of nigeria 's oil output .
an amnesty in 2009 ended the acts of sabotage being carried out on vulnerable pipelines and platforms , such as shell 's soku gas facility which had been the target of militant rocket attacks at the height of the so-called oil war .
" shell had been the main target of attacks by militants since the early 1990s , " heinrich bergstresser , a nigeria expert at the german institute of global and area studies -lrb- giga -rrb- in hamburg , told deutsche welle .
" the sabotages and attacks on shell 's installations , among others , were and are executed not just by militants but also orchestrated by complicit agents within the oil companies .
they benefit from the attacks because these people are very often also in charge of managing the payment of compensation which offers the opportunity to keep certain amounts of the payment for themselves . "
the cable dispatches from 2008 showed that shell 's pickard had contacted the us consulate in lagos with an offer to share " intelligence " on militant activity in exchange for information on a shipment of surface-to-air missiles which had allegedly been destined for nigerian militant groups in the delta region .
cables hint at shell 's involvement with local godfathers the cables describe how pickard was also unconvinced that a certain governor in the delta region " lacked the connections among rivers state militant leaders to successfully coopt them as the governors in delta and bayelsa states have done with militants in their states , " and that she believed the clash between the military and militants was " a proxy war for ongoing disputes " between rival governors .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : playing both sides in the delta struggle is a dangerous game this section of the cable transcripts hints at the possibility that shell has been attempting to use its influence to control local leaders , a comlicated and dangerous practice according to heinrich bergstresser .
" shell is playing with fire if it has or had any connection with the governors and militants , " he said .
" on the one hand , the oil companies can not control the governors but on the other hand they can try to persuade them to act in favor of the companies and in their own interest .
i am sure that they are paying certain amounts to the governors but that does not guarantee anything . "
bergstresser added that very often the oil companies find themselves caught between a rock and a hard place .
" the militias have emancipated themselves from their political godfathers and have started their own business of attacks and kidnappings so the oil companies find themselves sandwiched between profit-making , being threatened by militias , and keeping very close relationships with the federal government . "
author : nick amies editor : rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de illegal arms shipments to nigeria raise stakes ahead of 2011 elections general elections in nigeria are still several months away , but tensions are rising with memories still fresh of the 2007 poll which saw widespread allegations of corruption , voter fraud and violence .
-lrb- 01.12.2010 -rrb- biafra war anniversary highlights nigeria ’ s uncertain future " biafra " was the taunt german children used for skinny kids in the late 60s - the term was synonymous with starvation .
it is now 40 years since the end of the biafra war , and nigeria 's future still hangs in the balance .
-lrb- 15.01.2010 -rrb- shell settles lawsuit over killing of nigerian activists european oil giant royal dutch shell has agreed to pay $ 15.5 million -lrb- 11.2 million euros -rrb- to the families of six nigerian activists executed in 1995 but has refused to accept any liability for the violence .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- feedback in your opinion , has shell done anything wrong by gaining influence in nigerian government ministeries ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9801 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the views from your windows -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de view from my window -pipe- 13.12.2010 the views from your windows back to first page back 2/3 ahead bildunterschrift : evenskjer , norway " a little summer cruise ship traffic from my kitchen window here in the village of evenskjer in northern norway ! -lrb- 68 ' 35 north and 16 ' 34 east -rrb- .
during the summer many ships like this one pass by my home through the tjeldsund sound on their way from the lofoten islands to the northern cape .
the mountain on the other side is called sætertind -lrb- 1095 metres above sea level -rrb- and is on norway ’ s largest island , the hinn island .
as you can see , even though it is summer there is still snow on the top of the mountain ! "
gerhard mundt is a canadian of german and norwegian descent living with his family in this picturesque part of the world . bildunterschrift : quezon city , philippines " this is the view from my window every time i come home after work .
i live on the 11th floor of a high-rise condominium .
the view i have here is that of the skyscrapers and the residential areas of an adjacent city .
i love how the colorful sunset always gives me that relaxing feeling after a stressful day in the office . "
sarah quinto works as a german travel accountant at ibm business services , inc. in quezon city , philippines . bildunterschrift : prague , czech republic " for ten months now , i 've been living in a dormitory in prague located on the vltava river .
my room is on the fifteenth floor .
even though the streets below are filled with cars nearly every day , i like the view .
it has everything : a bit of the city , a bit of the forest , a bit of the river and a bit of the sky . "
trang dothu is 20 years old and a student in prague . bildunterschrift : ashford , ireland " i am very lucky to have this view looking from my kitchen window over the valley in ashford , county wicklow , ireland . "
brendan lynch is a taxi driver in dublin , ireland . bildunterschrift : sydney , australia " i was walking in the sydney central business district and decided to take a picture for deutsche welle .
this picture is of world square -lrb- well part of it -rrb- in the city of sydney in the state of new south wales , australia .
sorry about the traffic , but i feel the effect of the moving traffic actually gives the picture character : - -rrb- " matthew samson is 26 years old and lives in sydney , australia . bildunterschrift : kyiv , ukraine " this is the view from the balcony on the top floor of a large building , which offers a magnificent view of one of the residential districts of the ukrainian capital of kyiv .
hundreds of thousands of people live here , including me .
every morning many commuters going to work cross the dnieper river , which divides the city , and in the evenings they return the same way .
therefore the single bridge connecting the residential district with the business district is often the scene of massive traffic jams .
but the citizens of kyiv are n't too worried by this .
every night you can see hundreds of windows lit up , behind each one , a cozy pocket of life and light . "
valentin bondaruk lives in kyiv where he studies international business and management at the kyiv vadym hetman national economic university .
he is an amateur photographer who enjoys taking photos of cityscapes . bildunterschrift : dharwad , india " when i just peep out from my window i can see these hot chillies spread to dry as the temperature risesin our city .
once this city used to be very cool and it would be always raining but god knows what has happened ; the temperature has reached 38 celsius here . "
c. pavan lives in dharwad , a city in the indian state of karnataka . bildunterschrift : turin , italy " this is the view from my window to the inner courtyard of the building where i 'm living in turin , italy .
one of my neighbors pegged out clothing and i found this particular item interesting and funny . "
martin bruckmanns has lived in turin since 1993 after moving from germany to study in italy . he is a professional photographer . bildunterschrift : skopje , macedonia i must say i was very amazed by each photo published , so i thought i 'd submit one myself .
this is the view from my window on a sunny day from the apartment where i am staying during my university studies in skopje , macedonia , taken while i was studying for my upcoming exams . "
ljubica todorova is in her third year of studies in english language and literature at the university of skopje . bildunterschrift : nairobi , kenya " i live in a slum called kyangombe in kenya so as i am seated outside enjoying the breeze , i see these three little boys playing along the railroad tracks in the dirt .
it reminds me of the innocent months of yesteryear . "
mutua alex michael lives in kyangombe , near nairobi , kenya . see more of the views from your windows . back to first page back 2/3 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9801 web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the views from your windows -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de view from my window -pipe- 13.12.2010 the views from your windows 1/3 ahead whether you look out at a city skyline , a field of corn or a mountain , deutsche welle wants to see the view from your perspective .
send us a photo of what is happening outside your window . by submitting a photo and text to deutsche welle you permit dw to crop the photo for size , as well as edit the text for style and appropriateness of content .
you will retain copyright for the photo but allow deutsche welle to publish it on our website . not all submitted photos will be published .
please limit your submitted photos to landscape orientation . bildunterschrift : lake constance , germany " this is the view from my office window on the island of mainau on lake constance .
as environmental manager and security engineer of mainau gmbh i have a wonderful job in many ways . "
heinrich straub works on the island of mainau on lake constance in germany . bildunterschrift : newfoundland , canada " here is a view from my living room window .
despite a warm and beautiful autumn the winter has arrived .
but because of the cold i can enjoy a very wonderful ice jungle pattern on my window .
darryl cremasco is from canada .
he is 28 years old and lives in newfoundland , canada , where he works as a choral conductor and professional musician . bildunterschrift : matraszele , hungary " when i look out my window , i see the old church in my small village .
the church stands on a hill and looks beautiful in the sunset .
if i want to calm myself , all i have to do is look out of my window . "
nagy eniko lives in matraszele , hungary . bildunterschrift : berlin , germany " when i look out of my window i can see the nikolaikirche , the oldest church in berlin , followed by the tower of the famous red town hall with the berlin flag on top .
and all those great buildings are overlooked by the highest tv-tower -lrb- 368 meters or 1207 feet -rrb- in germany marking the alexanderplatz in berlin-mitte .
my flat is on the second floor of a so-called plattenbau ; a number of pre-fabricated buildings marking the 750th anniversary of berlin 's foundation . "
friedrich zimmermann is a retired media worker who lives in berlin . bildunterschrift : taipei , taiwan “ this is the view from the fourth floor of the library at the national taiwan university in taipei .
taipei is a city crowded with people and vehicles .
but at the ntu campus , all we see are bikes and azaleas with an elegant atmosphere .
from this angle , royal palm boulevard happened to come into my sight . ”
yully lin lives in taipei , taiwan , and studies at ntu . bildunterschrift : kherson , ukraine " this is the view from my bedroom window .
since childhood , this apple tree has welcomed me in the mornings .
it 's beautiful whenever the weather is nice , especially in spring when it blooms .
i also like the tree in autumn - the apples will turn red and smell wonderful . "
my name is liuba and i am from kherson , in ukraine .
my city is not far from the black sea .
i study and in my spare time i like to take photos . bildunterschrift : somewhere over java , indonesia " i took this picture when i was flying on garuda indonesia airways from jakarta to bali island for work .
i remember i taking this picture on april 18 , 2010 as we flew over java .
the reason i took it was because it was momentous to see clouds gather so whitely under the sunrise .
it was very comforting in my eyes and through my soul .
it made me realize that we are nothing without god . "
tita armadiani is a 29-year-old woman from indonesia where she is a local television reporter . bildunterschrift : rishal dandha , nepal " this picture is of rishal dandha -lrb- lakury byanjang -rrb- .
rishal dandha is about 1750 meters above sea level .
from here you can see a lot : the entire katmandu valley -lrb- the capital of nepal -rrb- and the entire chain of the himalayas , from mount manasulu to everest .
it is also a nice village .
there are always great people around here , and in the spring we see many beautiful flowers and have plenty of clean , fresh air to breathe . "
santosh giri is a guide for dav-summit club , a german alpine club in nepal . bildunterschrift : buenos aires , argentina " i live on a fifth floor in one of the many buildings that can be found in the city of buenos aires .
my neighborhood is not as chaotic as it may look like , in fact it 's quite nice and quiet .
today we have a sunny winter day . "
luciano quiroga lives in buenos aires , argentina . bildunterschrift : colorado , us " this is the view from my window ... somewhere in colorado !
there 's not much happening outside , besides deer , black bears , foxes , elk , raccoons , squirrels , mountain lions and rabbits marching by ! "
andrea furniss lives " somewhere in colorado , " in the united states . bildunterschrift : marsaskala , malta " this is the view my fiancee and i have from the large windows of our living room .
we overlook marsaskala bay in marsaskala , malta .
originally , i am a " bobbele " from freiburg , suedbaden , but given my fiancee is maltese , we decided to move to malta . "
dominik kalweit is a political scientist working as project and research manager for the maltese development ngo kopin . see more of the views from your windows . 1/3 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9801 dw-tv europe live quadriga we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the views from your windows -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de view from my window -pipe- 13.12.2010 the views from your windows 1/3 ahead whether you look out at a city skyline , a field of corn or a mountain , deutsche welle wants to see the view from your perspective .
send us a photo of what is happening outside your window . by submitting a photo and text to deutsche welle you permit dw to crop the photo for size , as well as edit the text for style and appropriateness of content .
you will retain copyright for the photo but allow deutsche welle to publish it on our website . not all submitted photos will be published .
please limit your submitted photos to landscape orientation . bildunterschrift : lake constance , germany " this is the view from my office window on the island of mainau on lake constance .
as environmental manager and security engineer of mainau gmbh i have a wonderful job in many ways . "
heinrich straub works on the island of mainau on lake constance in germany . bildunterschrift : newfoundland , canada " here is a view from my living room window .
despite a warm and beautiful autumn the winter has arrived .
but because of the cold i can enjoy a very wonderful ice jungle pattern on my window .
darryl cremasco is from canada .
he is 28 years old and lives in newfoundland , canada , where he works as a choral conductor and professional musician . bildunterschrift : matraszele , hungary " when i look out my window , i see the old church in my small village .
the church stands on a hill and looks beautiful in the sunset .
if i want to calm myself , all i have to do is look out of my window . "
nagy eniko lives in matraszele , hungary . bildunterschrift : berlin , germany " when i look out of my window i can see the nikolaikirche , the oldest church in berlin , followed by the tower of the famous red town hall with the berlin flag on top .
and all those great buildings are overlooked by the highest tv-tower -lrb- 368 meters or 1207 feet -rrb- in germany marking the alexanderplatz in berlin-mitte .
my flat is on the second floor of a so-called plattenbau ; a number of pre-fabricated buildings marking the 750th anniversary of berlin 's foundation . "
friedrich zimmermann is a retired media worker who lives in berlin . bildunterschrift : taipei , taiwan “ this is the view from the fourth floor of the library at the national taiwan university in taipei .
taipei is a city crowded with people and vehicles .
but at the ntu campus , all we see are bikes and azaleas with an elegant atmosphere .
from this angle , royal palm boulevard happened to come into my sight . ”
yully lin lives in taipei , taiwan , and studies at ntu . bildunterschrift : kherson , ukraine " this is the view from my bedroom window .
since childhood , this apple tree has welcomed me in the mornings .
it 's beautiful whenever the weather is nice , especially in spring when it blooms .
i also like the tree in autumn - the apples will turn red and smell wonderful . "
my name is liuba and i am from kherson , in ukraine .
my city is not far from the black sea .
i study and in my spare time i like to take photos . bildunterschrift : somewhere over java , indonesia " i took this picture when i was flying on garuda indonesia airways from jakarta to bali island for work .
i remember i taking this picture on april 18 , 2010 as we flew over java .
the reason i took it was because it was momentous to see clouds gather so whitely under the sunrise .
it was very comforting in my eyes and through my soul .
it made me realize that we are nothing without god . "
tita armadiani is a 29-year-old woman from indonesia where she is a local television reporter . bildunterschrift : rishal dandha , nepal " this picture is of rishal dandha -lrb- lakury byanjang -rrb- .
rishal dandha is about 1750 meters above sea level .
from here you can see a lot : the entire katmandu valley -lrb- the capital of nepal -rrb- and the entire chain of the himalayas , from mount manasulu to everest .
it is also a nice village .
there are always great people around here , and in the spring we see many beautiful flowers and have plenty of clean , fresh air to breathe . "
santosh giri is a guide for dav-summit club , a german alpine club in nepal . bildunterschrift : buenos aires , argentina " i live on a fifth floor in one of the many buildings that can be found in the city of buenos aires .
my neighborhood is not as chaotic as it may look like , in fact it 's quite nice and quiet .
today we have a sunny winter day . "
luciano quiroga lives in buenos aires , argentina . bildunterschrift : colorado , us " this is the view from my window ... somewhere in colorado !
there 's not much happening outside , besides deer , black bears , foxes , elk , raccoons , squirrels , mountain lions and rabbits marching by ! "
andrea furniss lives " somewhere in colorado , " in the united states . bildunterschrift : marsaskala , malta " this is the view my fiancee and i have from the large windows of our living room .
we overlook marsaskala bay in marsaskala , malta .
originally , i am a " bobbele " from freiburg , suedbaden , but given my fiancee is maltese , we decided to move to malta . "
dominik kalweit is a political scientist working as project and research manager for the maltese development ngo kopin . see more of the views from your windows . 1/3 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9801 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the views from your windows -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de view from my window -pipe- 13.12.2010 the views from your windows back to first page back 2/3 ahead bildunterschrift : evenskjer , norway " a little summer cruise ship traffic from my kitchen window here in the village of evenskjer in northern norway ! -lrb- 68 ' 35 north and 16 ' 34 east -rrb- .
during the summer many ships like this one pass by my home through the tjeldsund sound on their way from the lofoten islands to the northern cape .
the mountain on the other side is called sætertind -lrb- 1095 metres above sea level -rrb- and is on norway ’ s largest island , the hinn island .
as you can see , even though it is summer there is still snow on the top of the mountain ! "
gerhard mundt is a canadian of german and norwegian descent living with his family in this picturesque part of the world . bildunterschrift : quezon city , philippines " this is the view from my window every time i come home after work .
i live on the 11th floor of a high-rise condominium .
the view i have here is that of the skyscrapers and the residential areas of an adjacent city .
i love how the colorful sunset always gives me that relaxing feeling after a stressful day in the office . "
sarah quinto works as a german travel accountant at ibm business services , inc. in quezon city , philippines . bildunterschrift : prague , czech republic " for ten months now , i 've been living in a dormitory in prague located on the vltava river .
my room is on the fifteenth floor .
even though the streets below are filled with cars nearly every day , i like the view .
it has everything : a bit of the city , a bit of the forest , a bit of the river and a bit of the sky . "
trang dothu is 20 years old and a student in prague . bildunterschrift : ashford , ireland " i am very lucky to have this view looking from my kitchen window over the valley in ashford , county wicklow , ireland . "
brendan lynch is a taxi driver in dublin , ireland . bildunterschrift : sydney , australia " i was walking in the sydney central business district and decided to take a picture for deutsche welle .
this picture is of world square -lrb- well part of it -rrb- in the city of sydney in the state of new south wales , australia .
sorry about the traffic , but i feel the effect of the moving traffic actually gives the picture character : - -rrb- " matthew samson is 26 years old and lives in sydney , australia . bildunterschrift : kyiv , ukraine " this is the view from the balcony on the top floor of a large building , which offers a magnificent view of one of the residential districts of the ukrainian capital of kyiv .
hundreds of thousands of people live here , including me .
every morning many commuters going to work cross the dnieper river , which divides the city , and in the evenings they return the same way .
therefore the single bridge connecting the residential district with the business district is often the scene of massive traffic jams .
but the citizens of kyiv are n't too worried by this .
every night you can see hundreds of windows lit up , behind each one , a cozy pocket of life and light . "
valentin bondaruk lives in kyiv where he studies international business and management at the kyiv vadym hetman national economic university .
he is an amateur photographer who enjoys taking photos of cityscapes . bildunterschrift : dharwad , india " when i just peep out from my window i can see these hot chillies spread to dry as the temperature risesin our city .
once this city used to be very cool and it would be always raining but god knows what has happened ; the temperature has reached 38 celsius here . "
c. pavan lives in dharwad , a city in the indian state of karnataka . bildunterschrift : turin , italy " this is the view from my window to the inner courtyard of the building where i 'm living in turin , italy .
one of my neighbors pegged out clothing and i found this particular item interesting and funny . "
martin bruckmanns has lived in turin since 1993 after moving from germany to study in italy . he is a professional photographer . bildunterschrift : skopje , macedonia i must say i was very amazed by each photo published , so i thought i 'd submit one myself .
this is the view from my window on a sunny day from the apartment where i am staying during my university studies in skopje , macedonia , taken while i was studying for my upcoming exams . "
ljubica todorova is in her third year of studies in english language and literature at the university of skopje . bildunterschrift : nairobi , kenya " i live in a slum called kyangombe in kenya so as i am seated outside enjoying the breeze , i see these three little boys playing along the railroad tracks in the dirt .
it reminds me of the innocent months of yesteryear . "
mutua alex michael lives in kyangombe , near nairobi , kenya . see more of the views from your windows . back to first page back 2/3 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9799 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the views from your windows -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de view from my window -pipe- 13.12.2010 the views from your windows back to first page back 3/3 bildunterschrift : tampa , us " i spend much of my time on the patio during the warmer months here in tampa , florida . the flowers are amaryllis .
they originally began as just one bulb several years ago and i brought it with me when i moved to tampa .
if one allows the flowers to go through their entire cycle eventually there will be seed pods which develop .
within each pod are many seeds which can be easily started , taking three to four years to grow their own flower stocks . "
larry zollner lives in tampa , florida , in the usa . bildunterschrift : saint paul , us joan pierce lives on a bluff overlooking the main channel of the mississippi river near st. paul , minnesota , usa . bildunterschrift : mazatlan , mexico " this is the view from my window at work early in the morning in mazatlan , méxico .
while i wait for a ship to enter the port and dock , i get to feel the early sunshine : -rrb- " chamely orona lives in mexico . bildunterschrift : leipzig , germany " this is the view of a student neighborhood with two children playing on concrete spheres in leipzig , 2010 . "
alexander araya is a costa rican sociologist and he is in germany to get his ph.d. at freie universität berlin . bildunterschrift : paris , france " this is the view from my little balcony in a roof apartment on montmartre that i bought about a year ago .
sick of paying high rents , i 'm finally a proud owner - and this view towards the panthéon , the centre pompidou and the louvre had some impact in the decision to buy this place .
the balcony is just big enough for one chair and a little tray , but finally , this is my home ... yeah ! "
jochen lives in the montmartre area of paris in france .
he is originally from germany but has lived in paris for the past eight years . bildunterschrift : pune , india " i live in pune , india .
the area where i live is very green .
this is a view from the window of my bedroom .
there is a huge tree outside my apartment .
i live on the first floor and sometimes the branches of the tree enter my room through the window .
i simply love the tree and the view .
every morning i wake up to the sound of birds chirping on the tree .
many species of bird sit or have made their nests in the tree .
the most common ones are pigeons , crows , cuckoos and sometimes i have even seen a kingfisher or two sitting on the branches .
many times i have watched quietly and seen two crows or pigeons sitting together perhaps talking to each other in their own language .
i find this so awesome .
there are lots of squirrels on the tree and sometimes one of them loses its way and ends up in my room through the window , but eventually manages to find its way back to the tree . "
preeti bhardwaj lives in pune in the indian state of maharashtra .
she works as a translator of german to english . bildunterschrift : hebron , west bank " i live in hebron , in an area known as ' tarqoumya . '
this is the view from my window at night with a little bit of mist . "
hasan mraqtan lives in the west bank city of hebron . bildunterschrift : tuen mun , hong kong " i live in hong kong , in an area known as ' gold coast ' in tuen mun .
this is overlooking the gold coast marina and castle peak bay further down .
on a very clear day you can even see macau in the distance . "
nana listl is an indonesian-german living in hong kong with her husband since 2006 due to their employment .
they love living in hong kong , she writes . bildunterschrift : kirobohrad , ukraine " this is the view from my window .
we have many trees on our street where every day we see more beautiful birds .
it 's a little woodpecker . "
alena lytvynenko is from kirobohrad , ukraine . bildunterschrift : alexandria , egypt " this view is from the balcony of my apartment in alexandria , egypt . it overlooks the corniche and the mediterranean sea . "
azza rady is an assistant lecturer of forensic medicine and toxicology at cairo university in egypt .
editor : stuart tiffen send a photo of the view from your window and text about the scene and about yourself to : social-media @ dw-world.de back to first page back 3/3 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9797 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live hits in germany pop from the german top 100 listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the views from your windows -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de view from my window -pipe- 13.12.2010 the views from your windows back to first page back 2/3 ahead bildunterschrift : evenskjer , norway " a little summer cruise ship traffic from my kitchen window here in the village of evenskjer in northern norway ! -lrb- 68 ' 35 north and 16 ' 34 east -rrb- .
during the summer many ships like this one pass by my home through the tjeldsund sound on their way from the lofoten islands to the northern cape .
the mountain on the other side is called sætertind -lrb- 1095 metres above sea level -rrb- and is on norway ’ s largest island , the hinn island .
as you can see , even though it is summer there is still snow on the top of the mountain ! "
gerhard mundt is a canadian of german and norwegian descent living with his family in this picturesque part of the world . bildunterschrift : quezon city , philippines " this is the view from my window every time i come home after work .
i live on the 11th floor of a high-rise condominium .
the view i have here is that of the skyscrapers and the residential areas of an adjacent city .
i love how the colorful sunset always gives me that relaxing feeling after a stressful day in the office . "
sarah quinto works as a german travel accountant at ibm business services , inc. in quezon city , philippines . bildunterschrift : prague , czech republic " for ten months now , i 've been living in a dormitory in prague located on the vltava river .
my room is on the fifteenth floor .
even though the streets below are filled with cars nearly every day , i like the view .
it has everything : a bit of the city , a bit of the forest , a bit of the river and a bit of the sky . "
trang dothu is 20 years old and a student in prague . bildunterschrift : ashford , ireland " i am very lucky to have this view looking from my kitchen window over the valley in ashford , county wicklow , ireland . "
brendan lynch is a taxi driver in dublin , ireland . bildunterschrift : sydney , australia " i was walking in the sydney central business district and decided to take a picture for deutsche welle .
this picture is of world square -lrb- well part of it -rrb- in the city of sydney in the state of new south wales , australia .
sorry about the traffic , but i feel the effect of the moving traffic actually gives the picture character : - -rrb- " matthew samson is 26 years old and lives in sydney , australia . bildunterschrift : kyiv , ukraine " this is the view from the balcony on the top floor of a large building , which offers a magnificent view of one of the residential districts of the ukrainian capital of kyiv .
hundreds of thousands of people live here , including me .
every morning many commuters going to work cross the dnieper river , which divides the city , and in the evenings they return the same way .
therefore the single bridge connecting the residential district with the business district is often the scene of massive traffic jams .
but the citizens of kyiv are n't too worried by this .
every night you can see hundreds of windows lit up , behind each one , a cozy pocket of life and light . "
valentin bondaruk lives in kyiv where he studies international business and management at the kyiv vadym hetman national economic university .
he is an amateur photographer who enjoys taking photos of cityscapes . bildunterschrift : dharwad , india " when i just peep out from my window i can see these hot chillies spread to dry as the temperature risesin our city .
once this city used to be very cool and it would be always raining but god knows what has happened ; the temperature has reached 38 celsius here . "
c. pavan lives in dharwad , a city in the indian state of karnataka . bildunterschrift : turin , italy " this is the view from my window to the inner courtyard of the building where i 'm living in turin , italy .
one of my neighbors pegged out clothing and i found this particular item interesting and funny . "
martin bruckmanns has lived in turin since 1993 after moving from germany to study in italy . he is a professional photographer . bildunterschrift : skopje , macedonia i must say i was very amazed by each photo published , so i thought i 'd submit one myself .
this is the view from my window on a sunny day from the apartment where i am staying during my university studies in skopje , macedonia , taken while i was studying for my upcoming exams . "
ljubica todorova is in her third year of studies in english language and literature at the university of skopje . bildunterschrift : nairobi , kenya " i live in a slum called kyangombe in kenya so as i am seated outside enjoying the breeze , i see these three little boys playing along the railroad tracks in the dirt .
it reminds me of the innocent months of yesteryear . "
mutua alex michael lives in kyangombe , near nairobi , kenya . see more of the views from your windows . back to first page back 2/3 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9797 dw-tv europe live talking germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds pavan sukhdev listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the views from your windows -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de view from my window -pipe- 13.12.2010 the views from your windows 1/3 ahead whether you look out at a city skyline , a field of corn or a mountain , deutsche welle wants to see the view from your perspective .
send us a photo of what is happening outside your window . by submitting a photo and text to deutsche welle you permit dw to crop the photo for size , as well as edit the text for style and appropriateness of content .
you will retain copyright for the photo but allow deutsche welle to publish it on our website . not all submitted photos will be published .
please limit your submitted photos to landscape orientation . bildunterschrift : lake constance , germany " this is the view from my office window on the island of mainau on lake constance .
as environmental manager and security engineer of mainau gmbh i have a wonderful job in many ways . "
heinrich straub works on the island of mainau on lake constance in germany . bildunterschrift : newfoundland , canada " here is a view from my living room window .
despite a warm and beautiful autumn the winter has arrived .
but because of the cold i can enjoy a very wonderful ice jungle pattern on my window .
darryl cremasco is from canada .
he is 28 years old and lives in newfoundland , canada , where he works as a choral conductor and professional musician . bildunterschrift : matraszele , hungary " when i look out my window , i see the old church in my small village .
the church stands on a hill and looks beautiful in the sunset .
if i want to calm myself , all i have to do is look out of my window . "
nagy eniko lives in matraszele , hungary . bildunterschrift : berlin , germany " when i look out of my window i can see the nikolaikirche , the oldest church in berlin , followed by the tower of the famous red town hall with the berlin flag on top .
and all those great buildings are overlooked by the highest tv-tower -lrb- 368 meters or 1207 feet -rrb- in germany marking the alexanderplatz in berlin-mitte .
my flat is on the second floor of a so-called plattenbau ; a number of pre-fabricated buildings marking the 750th anniversary of berlin 's foundation . "
friedrich zimmermann is a retired media worker who lives in berlin . bildunterschrift : taipei , taiwan “ this is the view from the fourth floor of the library at the national taiwan university in taipei .
taipei is a city crowded with people and vehicles .
but at the ntu campus , all we see are bikes and azaleas with an elegant atmosphere .
from this angle , royal palm boulevard happened to come into my sight . ”
yully lin lives in taipei , taiwan , and studies at ntu . bildunterschrift : kherson , ukraine " this is the view from my bedroom window .
since childhood , this apple tree has welcomed me in the mornings .
it 's beautiful whenever the weather is nice , especially in spring when it blooms .
i also like the tree in autumn - the apples will turn red and smell wonderful . "
my name is liuba and i am from kherson , in ukraine .
my city is not far from the black sea .
i study and in my spare time i like to take photos . bildunterschrift : somewhere over java , indonesia " i took this picture when i was flying on garuda indonesia airways from jakarta to bali island for work .
i remember i taking this picture on april 18 , 2010 as we flew over java .
the reason i took it was because it was momentous to see clouds gather so whitely under the sunrise .
it was very comforting in my eyes and through my soul .
it made me realize that we are nothing without god . "
tita armadiani is a 29-year-old woman from indonesia where she is a local television reporter . bildunterschrift : rishal dandha , nepal " this picture is of rishal dandha -lrb- lakury byanjang -rrb- .
rishal dandha is about 1750 meters above sea level .
from here you can see a lot : the entire katmandu valley -lrb- the capital of nepal -rrb- and the entire chain of the himalayas , from mount manasulu to everest .
it is also a nice village .
there are always great people around here , and in the spring we see many beautiful flowers and have plenty of clean , fresh air to breathe . "
santosh giri is a guide for dav-summit club , a german alpine club in nepal . bildunterschrift : buenos aires , argentina " i live on a fifth floor in one of the many buildings that can be found in the city of buenos aires .
my neighborhood is not as chaotic as it may look like , in fact it 's quite nice and quiet .
today we have a sunny winter day . "
luciano quiroga lives in buenos aires , argentina . bildunterschrift : colorado , us " this is the view from my window ... somewhere in colorado !
there 's not much happening outside , besides deer , black bears , foxes , elk , raccoons , squirrels , mountain lions and rabbits marching by ! "
andrea furniss lives " somewhere in colorado , " in the united states . bildunterschrift : marsaskala , malta " this is the view my fiancee and i have from the large windows of our living room .
we overlook marsaskala bay in marsaskala , malta .
originally , i am a " bobbele " from freiburg , suedbaden , but given my fiancee is maltese , we decided to move to malta . "
dominik kalweit is a political scientist working as project and research manager for the maltese development ngo kopin . see more of the views from your windows . 1/3 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9797 dw-tv europe live in focus we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds pavan sukhdev listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
all i want for christmas is ... -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de christmas -pipe- 13.12.2010 all i want for christmas is ... großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children have left instructions for christmas gift-givers for over a century toothpaste may seem like an unusual item on a christmas wish list - but over a century ago , it was n't so strange .
an exhibition in dortmund unveils the touching and sometimes comical history of holiday wish lists . in some countries , christmas presents are exchanged on the morning of december 25 , while most europeans give gifts on the evening of the 24th .
no matter when they 're unwrapped , it 's hard to imagine christmas without presents . the tradition , however , is relatively new .
it was n't until the end of the 19th century that gift-giving was associated with christmas in germany .
before that , st. nicholas brought presents to well-behaved children on december 6 . with the advent of gifts , it was only inevitable that children would help the givers - real and imagined - out with wish lists . " the development of the christmas gift-giving tradition mainly had to do with the fact that more presents and toys were available as a result of industrialization , " historian isolde parussel told deutsche welle . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a christmas gift table may have looked like this in the 19th century of course , not everyone could afford the new toys , but that did n't keep children from writing out their wishes . old toys made just like new parussel is behind the exhibition " … bring us many nice things , " which is currently on show at the museum of art and cultural history in the western german city of dortmund .
over 100 holiday wish lists are on display , along with decorative gift tables , toys and festive christmas trees from the past century . most of the items were collected from private households following a request published in german newspapers . some of the wish lists are addressed to st. nicholas or santa claus , but many were written to the ' christkind ' - a sprite-like child , usually depicted with blond hair and angelic wings . in one list from 1899 , a young girl hoped for " a dress for -lsb- my doll -rsb- fraenzchen , a set of colored pencils , a sailor 's hat for me " but also " calling cards and a tube of calodont tooth paste . "
at the end of the 19th century , tooth paste in tubes was extremely modern - something extraordinary even for a little girl . as the end of the girl 's letter reveals , gifts were n't necessarily expected to be new .
" and then , dear christkind , -lsb- my dolls -rsb- siegfried and dori need to be taken to the hospital .
dori 's hair is growing very sparsely on her head and her limbs are very droopy .
both of these things need to be fixed , " wrote the girl . despite having to organize presents for so many children , the christkind occasionally found time to write back .
one such letter - composed on a typewriter and dated christmas eve , 1911 - is included in the exhibition ; parussel suspects , of course , that it was written by the parents .
" the angels say that you and -lsb- your sister -rsb- staenzerl were n't very good doll mothers this year , " read the letter : " under these circumstances , entrusting you with a real baby seems to be too much of a responsibility . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : isolde parussel curated the dortmund exhibition apparently , the girls had wished for a sibling - a gift their parents apparently were n't yet willing to provide . some things do n't change the letters and lists offer insights into the everyday lives of various generations .
children from the post-world war ii generation wanted nothing more than a warm hat or a notebook for school .
one short generation later , one girl asked for a knee-length skirt , according to the trend of the time . the most recent wish list in the collection is from 2008 .
jascha from dortmund had cut out pictures from catalogues - complete with price tags - to illustrate his list , which mainly consisted of electronics . jascha 's wishes are expensive , but , when taking the standard of living into account , they 're not necessarily more valuable than the things children asked for a century ago , said parussel . " you ca n't necessarily say that this child is just focused on consumption , " she said .
he put just as much effort into his wish list , writing it neatly and decorating it with colored pencils . " author : sola huelsewig -lrb- kjb -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de toys r ' scarce in german stores toy makers and retailers in germany could n't be happier : christmas shoppers appear to have a near insatiable appetite for toys .
products from traditional european toymakers like lego and playmobil are in high demand .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- racism controversy dampens holland 's sinterklaas tradition children across europe eagerly await the arrival of st. nicholas on december 6 .
but in holland , the tradition has racist implications that the dutch are n't quite willing to give up .
-lrb- 05.12.2010 -rrb- ' dear christkind ' : a german post office answers christmas letters in the small town of engelskirchen , thousands of letters from around the world arrive at a seasonal christmas post office , all addressed to one person .
for over 20 years , postal workers have written back .
-lrb- 24.12.2009 -rrb- feedback do you have a special christmas tradition in your family ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
food try these recipes for a taste of europe .
hearty irish stew knödel dumplings with meat filling ribolitta from florence berlin-style pork with potatoes fish from lake traunsee in austria cologne fish with gourmet twist sweet-savory pheasant from leeds escudella vegetable and meat soup podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 10 - 1000 robota with a new take on punk subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
all i want for christmas is ... -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de christmas -pipe- 13.12.2010 all i want for christmas is ... großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children have left instructions for christmas gift-givers for over a century toothpaste may seem like an unusual item on a christmas wish list - but over a century ago , it was n't so strange .
an exhibition in dortmund unveils the touching and sometimes comical history of holiday wish lists . in some countries , christmas presents are exchanged on the morning of december 25 , while most europeans give gifts on the evening of the 24th .
no matter when they 're unwrapped , it 's hard to imagine christmas without presents . the tradition , however , is relatively new .
it was n't until the end of the 19th century that gift-giving was associated with christmas in germany .
before that , st. nicholas brought presents to well-behaved children on december 6 . with the advent of gifts , it was only inevitable that children would help the givers - real and imagined - out with wish lists . " the development of the christmas gift-giving tradition mainly had to do with the fact that more presents and toys were available as a result of industrialization , " historian isolde parussel told deutsche welle . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a christmas gift table may have looked like this in the 19th century of course , not everyone could afford the new toys , but that did n't keep children from writing out their wishes . old toys made just like new parussel is behind the exhibition " … bring us many nice things , " which is currently on show at the museum of art and cultural history in the western german city of dortmund .
over 100 holiday wish lists are on display , along with decorative gift tables , toys and festive christmas trees from the past century . most of the items were collected from private households following a request published in german newspapers . some of the wish lists are addressed to st. nicholas or santa claus , but many were written to the ' christkind ' - a sprite-like child , usually depicted with blond hair and angelic wings . in one list from 1899 , a young girl hoped for " a dress for -lsb- my doll -rsb- fraenzchen , a set of colored pencils , a sailor 's hat for me " but also " calling cards and a tube of calodont tooth paste . "
at the end of the 19th century , tooth paste in tubes was extremely modern - something extraordinary even for a little girl . as the end of the girl 's letter reveals , gifts were n't necessarily expected to be new .
" and then , dear christkind , -lsb- my dolls -rsb- siegfried and dori need to be taken to the hospital .
dori 's hair is growing very sparsely on her head and her limbs are very droopy .
both of these things need to be fixed , " wrote the girl . despite having to organize presents for so many children , the christkind occasionally found time to write back .
one such letter - composed on a typewriter and dated christmas eve , 1911 - is included in the exhibition ; parussel suspects , of course , that it was written by the parents .
" the angels say that you and -lsb- your sister -rsb- staenzerl were n't very good doll mothers this year , " read the letter : " under these circumstances , entrusting you with a real baby seems to be too much of a responsibility . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : isolde parussel curated the dortmund exhibition apparently , the girls had wished for a sibling - a gift their parents apparently were n't yet willing to provide . some things do n't change the letters and lists offer insights into the everyday lives of various generations .
children from the post-world war ii generation wanted nothing more than a warm hat or a notebook for school .
one short generation later , one girl asked for a knee-length skirt , according to the trend of the time . the most recent wish list in the collection is from 2008 .
jascha from dortmund had cut out pictures from catalogues - complete with price tags - to illustrate his list , which mainly consisted of electronics . jascha 's wishes are expensive , but , when taking the standard of living into account , they 're not necessarily more valuable than the things children asked for a century ago , said parussel . " you ca n't necessarily say that this child is just focused on consumption , " she said .
he put just as much effort into his wish list , writing it neatly and decorating it with colored pencils . " author : sola huelsewig -lrb- kjb -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de toys r ' scarce in german stores toy makers and retailers in germany could n't be happier : christmas shoppers appear to have a near insatiable appetite for toys .
products from traditional european toymakers like lego and playmobil are in high demand .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- racism controversy dampens holland 's sinterklaas tradition children across europe eagerly await the arrival of st. nicholas on december 6 .
but in holland , the tradition has racist implications that the dutch are n't quite willing to give up .
-lrb- 05.12.2010 -rrb- ' dear christkind ' : a german post office answers christmas letters in the small town of engelskirchen , thousands of letters from around the world arrive at a seasonal christmas post office , all addressed to one person .
for over 20 years , postal workers have written back .
-lrb- 24.12.2009 -rrb- feedback do you have a special christmas tradition in your family ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
dw partner site our reporter takes an odyssey across berlin - on cross country skis .
watch the report podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski subscribe on itunes get the rss feed visit germany dw-tv tells you the top things to visit in this fun rhineland city .
" recommended " as video on demand download here -lrb- mp4 -rrb- cologne cologne carnival the claudius therme ' suenner im walfisch ' brewery -lrb- german -rrb- word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
all i want for christmas is ... -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de christmas -pipe- 13.12.2010 all i want for christmas is ... großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children have left instructions for christmas gift-givers for over a century toothpaste may seem like an unusual item on a christmas wish list - but over a century ago , it was n't so strange .
an exhibition in dortmund unveils the touching and sometimes comical history of holiday wish lists . in some countries , christmas presents are exchanged on the morning of december 25 , while most europeans give gifts on the evening of the 24th .
no matter when they 're unwrapped , it 's hard to imagine christmas without presents . the tradition , however , is relatively new .
it was n't until the end of the 19th century that gift-giving was associated with christmas in germany .
before that , st. nicholas brought presents to well-behaved children on december 6 . with the advent of gifts , it was only inevitable that children would help the givers - real and imagined - out with wish lists . " the development of the christmas gift-giving tradition mainly had to do with the fact that more presents and toys were available as a result of industrialization , " historian isolde parussel told deutsche welle . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a christmas gift table may have looked like this in the 19th century of course , not everyone could afford the new toys , but that did n't keep children from writing out their wishes . old toys made just like new parussel is behind the exhibition " … bring us many nice things , " which is currently on show at the museum of art and cultural history in the western german city of dortmund .
over 100 holiday wish lists are on display , along with decorative gift tables , toys and festive christmas trees from the past century . most of the items were collected from private households following a request published in german newspapers . some of the wish lists are addressed to st. nicholas or santa claus , but many were written to the ' christkind ' - a sprite-like child , usually depicted with blond hair and angelic wings . in one list from 1899 , a young girl hoped for " a dress for -lsb- my doll -rsb- fraenzchen , a set of colored pencils , a sailor 's hat for me " but also " calling cards and a tube of calodont tooth paste . "
at the end of the 19th century , tooth paste in tubes was extremely modern - something extraordinary even for a little girl . as the end of the girl 's letter reveals , gifts were n't necessarily expected to be new .
" and then , dear christkind , -lsb- my dolls -rsb- siegfried and dori need to be taken to the hospital .
dori 's hair is growing very sparsely on her head and her limbs are very droopy .
both of these things need to be fixed , " wrote the girl . despite having to organize presents for so many children , the christkind occasionally found time to write back .
one such letter - composed on a typewriter and dated christmas eve , 1911 - is included in the exhibition ; parussel suspects , of course , that it was written by the parents .
" the angels say that you and -lsb- your sister -rsb- staenzerl were n't very good doll mothers this year , " read the letter : " under these circumstances , entrusting you with a real baby seems to be too much of a responsibility . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : isolde parussel curated the dortmund exhibition apparently , the girls had wished for a sibling - a gift their parents apparently were n't yet willing to provide . some things do n't change the letters and lists offer insights into the everyday lives of various generations .
children from the post-world war ii generation wanted nothing more than a warm hat or a notebook for school .
one short generation later , one girl asked for a knee-length skirt , according to the trend of the time . the most recent wish list in the collection is from 2008 .
jascha from dortmund had cut out pictures from catalogues - complete with price tags - to illustrate his list , which mainly consisted of electronics . jascha 's wishes are expensive , but , when taking the standard of living into account , they 're not necessarily more valuable than the things children asked for a century ago , said parussel . " you ca n't necessarily say that this child is just focused on consumption , " she said .
he put just as much effort into his wish list , writing it neatly and decorating it with colored pencils . " author : sola huelsewig -lrb- kjb -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de toys r ' scarce in german stores toy makers and retailers in germany could n't be happier : christmas shoppers appear to have a near insatiable appetite for toys .
products from traditional european toymakers like lego and playmobil are in high demand .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- racism controversy dampens holland 's sinterklaas tradition children across europe eagerly await the arrival of st. nicholas on december 6 .
but in holland , the tradition has racist implications that the dutch are n't quite willing to give up .
-lrb- 05.12.2010 -rrb- ' dear christkind ' : a german post office answers christmas letters in the small town of engelskirchen , thousands of letters from around the world arrive at a seasonal christmas post office , all addressed to one person .
for over 20 years , postal workers have written back .
-lrb- 24.12.2009 -rrb- feedback do you have a special christmas tradition in your family ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
literature looking for a good book ?
book review : rabinowich 's ' splithead ' depicts east-west divide visit the new books in german website podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 11 - jupiter jones are moving on up subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 13.12.2010 uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stop and listen this christmas , says cage against the machine a uk campaign aims to rock the christmas single charts - with the sound of silence .
they 're using experimentalist composer john cage 's masterpiece of silence , 4 ' 33 " , to get people listening to the needs around them . it all started as a joke . last year , a uk campaign succeeded in its aim of preventing the winner of casting show x-factor from becoming christmas number one by encouraging people to help " killing in the name " by us band rage against the machine top the charts . this year , uk art therapy masters student dave hilliard quipped to his friends , " let 's get silence to number one . " " it was meant to be a joke , " julie hilliard , dave hilliard 's wife and co-initiator of cage against the machine -lrb- catm -rrb- , told deutsche welle .
" but it captured the imagination of so many people . " when it comes to getting silence on the charts , the avant-garde work " 4 ' 33 " by american experimental composer john cage -lrb- 1912-1992 -rrb- is the first that comes to mind .
the score calls for any combination of musicians to go on stage and play absolutely nothing for exactly four minutes and 33 seconds .
for some , an agonizing exercise in patience ; for others , ear-opening proof that escape from the unceasing aural bombardment of our multimedia society is , indeed , possible . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john cage was fascinated by incidental sound open your ears the hilliards , along with long-time friend and music pr expert john rogers , are less interested in making a profound artistic statement and keener raising money for a few underfunded charities . starting monday , december 13 , supporters can purchase a specially recorded version of cage 's groundbreaking 1952 work , which included the participation of artists like aeroplane , billy bragg and kooks - though , of course , they ca n't really be heard . they recorded their own version to ensure that the revenue went directly to selected charities , but also because most other editions separate the work 's three movements into three tracks - but only single tracks are eligible for the single charts . revenue from the recordings and from ads on the groups website go to charities like c.a.l.m. , which provides support to young men considering suicide , the british tinnitus association , and organizations that offer music education to underprivileged children . " when you stop talking and you start to look at the world around you , you can see all these other needs that are there , besides your own , " said julie hilliard , adding that the charities they chose particularly reflected their appeal to stop and listen . ' cage would approve ' new york-based john cage expert richard kostelanetz said he did n't think the composer would have objected to the use of his work in this way . " he lived on a very busy avenue and did n't own a record player , because he preferred to listen to the noise outside his house , " kostelanetz told deutsche welle . the cage expert added that the setting of the work is crucial to making it a work of art and that the irony is so much stronger when it is performed by renowned artists - like those involved in catm .
the audience is bound to listen even more intently , knowing what they could be hearing from those artists , if they were actually playing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the black eyed peas are number one this week taking back the charts with more than 80,000 facebook fans as of december 13 , cage against the machine may be well on its way to rocking the uk 's christmas charts . they 'll have stiff competition from black eyed peas , who top this week 's singles chart in the uk with " the time -lrb- dirty bit -rrb- " and from matt cardle , the most recent winner of the uk 's popular casting show , x factor . the media has largely focused on the cage against the machine campaign as a counterpoint to market-tailored pop ballade and , specifically , to x factor .
however , hilliard said she and her husband have nothing against the casting show , but simply are n't interested in watching it . " if you do n't like it , do n't turn it on ; if you do n't like the record , do n't buy it , " she said . and if cage against the machine has its way , christmas eve in the uk will truly be a silent night - or at least one filled with incidental noise . author : kate bowen editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de music hotel brings new beat to berlin berlin 's new music hotel , nhow , combines luxury , design and quality musical facilities .
it hopes to bridge the gap between international and local artists - but the city 's underground scene is n't easily impressed .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- young german pianist unites classical music with world of video games benyamin nuss , 21 , has been wowing audiences in some of europe 's finest concert halls with solo piano interpretations of video game music by nobuo uematsu .
he spoke to deutsche welle about this unusual project .
-lrb- 04.12.2010 -rrb- france to start carte musique digital music subsidy plan france hopes to change young shoppers ' habits by subsidizing the sale of music with a " music card . "
but the government has not yet said which online services people will be able to use to make purchases .
-lrb- 27.10.2010 -rrb- feedback what will you be listening to on christmas ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
food try these recipes for a taste of europe .
hearty irish stew knödel dumplings with meat filling ribolitta from florence berlin-style pork with potatoes fish from lake traunsee in austria cologne fish with gourmet twist sweet-savory pheasant from leeds escudella vegetable and meat soup podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 10 - 1000 robota with a new take on punk subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 13.12.2010 uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stop and listen this christmas , says cage against the machine a uk campaign aims to rock the christmas single charts - with the sound of silence .
they 're using experimentalist composer john cage 's masterpiece of silence , 4 ' 33 " , to get people listening to the needs around them . it all started as a joke . last year , a uk campaign succeeded in its aim of preventing the winner of casting show x-factor from becoming christmas number one by encouraging people to help " killing in the name " by us band rage against the machine top the charts . this year , uk art therapy masters student dave hilliard quipped to his friends , " let 's get silence to number one . " " it was meant to be a joke , " julie hilliard , dave hilliard 's wife and co-initiator of cage against the machine -lrb- catm -rrb- , told deutsche welle .
" but it captured the imagination of so many people . " when it comes to getting silence on the charts , the avant-garde work " 4 ' 33 " by american experimental composer john cage -lrb- 1912-1992 -rrb- is the first that comes to mind .
the score calls for any combination of musicians to go on stage and play absolutely nothing for exactly four minutes and 33 seconds .
for some , an agonizing exercise in patience ; for others , ear-opening proof that escape from the unceasing aural bombardment of our multimedia society is , indeed , possible . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john cage was fascinated by incidental sound open your ears the hilliards , along with long-time friend and music pr expert john rogers , are less interested in making a profound artistic statement and keener raising money for a few underfunded charities . starting monday , december 13 , supporters can purchase a specially recorded version of cage 's groundbreaking 1952 work , which included the participation of artists like aeroplane , billy bragg and kooks - though , of course , they ca n't really be heard . they recorded their own version to ensure that the revenue went directly to selected charities , but also because most other editions separate the work 's three movements into three tracks - but only single tracks are eligible for the single charts . revenue from the recordings and from ads on the groups website go to charities like c.a.l.m. , which provides support to young men considering suicide , the british tinnitus association , and organizations that offer music education to underprivileged children . " when you stop talking and you start to look at the world around you , you can see all these other needs that are there , besides your own , " said julie hilliard , adding that the charities they chose particularly reflected their appeal to stop and listen . ' cage would approve ' new york-based john cage expert richard kostelanetz said he did n't think the composer would have objected to the use of his work in this way . " he lived on a very busy avenue and did n't own a record player , because he preferred to listen to the noise outside his house , " kostelanetz told deutsche welle . the cage expert added that the setting of the work is crucial to making it a work of art and that the irony is so much stronger when it is performed by renowned artists - like those involved in catm .
the audience is bound to listen even more intently , knowing what they could be hearing from those artists , if they were actually playing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the black eyed peas are number one this week taking back the charts with more than 80,000 facebook fans as of december 13 , cage against the machine may be well on its way to rocking the uk 's christmas charts . they 'll have stiff competition from black eyed peas , who top this week 's singles chart in the uk with " the time -lrb- dirty bit -rrb- " and from matt cardle , the most recent winner of the uk 's popular casting show , x factor . the media has largely focused on the cage against the machine campaign as a counterpoint to market-tailored pop ballade and , specifically , to x factor .
however , hilliard said she and her husband have nothing against the casting show , but simply are n't interested in watching it . " if you do n't like it , do n't turn it on ; if you do n't like the record , do n't buy it , " she said . and if cage against the machine has its way , christmas eve in the uk will truly be a silent night - or at least one filled with incidental noise . author : kate bowen editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de music hotel brings new beat to berlin berlin 's new music hotel , nhow , combines luxury , design and quality musical facilities .
it hopes to bridge the gap between international and local artists - but the city 's underground scene is n't easily impressed .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- young german pianist unites classical music with world of video games benyamin nuss , 21 , has been wowing audiences in some of europe 's finest concert halls with solo piano interpretations of video game music by nobuo uematsu .
he spoke to deutsche welle about this unusual project .
-lrb- 04.12.2010 -rrb- france to start carte musique digital music subsidy plan france hopes to change young shoppers ' habits by subsidizing the sale of music with a " music card . "
but the government has not yet said which online services people will be able to use to make purchases .
-lrb- 27.10.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
dw-tv meet exceptional women who have achieved success in male-dominated jobs .
dj smokin joe car designer juliane blasi architect zeynep fadillioglu chef annie féolde conductor inma shara podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
successful european tech startups continue to lag behind -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 successful european tech startups continue to lag behind großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : european startups still lag behind us counterparts after a series of recent european tech conferences , silicon valley continues to dominate .
tech venture capital on this side of the atlantic still remains relatively small , due to bureaucracy , language problems . it was hard to ignore the dominance of silicon valley at this year 's leweb tech conference last week in paris - nearly all the speakers and featured guests were from california 's famed tech hub .
while european innovation is picking up speed , it is starting from a long way behind the american startup scene - participants at the conference blamed over-cautious investors and misguided government spending .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : european venture capitalists have n't been investing in tech startups as long as they have been in silicon valley a vicious cycle in europe adventurous investors tend to be entrepreneurs themselves , so , where silicon valley has created a virtuous cycle , europe is faced with a chicken-and-egg situation : there 's not enough money because there are not enough start-ups , and there are not enough start-ups because there 's not enough money .
" i know quite a few companies that moved to the valley just because they found capital there , " said sarik weber , a german entrepreneur who runs the start-up incubator programme hanse ventures in hamburg .
his company provides capital and advice to new businesses .
" the whole silicon valley ecosystem is based on 40 to 50 years of entrepreneurs building their companies doing exits very successfully and then reinvesting this money back into the ecosystem , " he added . " this is what really fosters the european startup scene .
when we get great exits like skype or others , these people reinvest their money into european start-ups and we have to create that . "
while european governments spend more on research and development than their american and japanese counterparts , experts say that tax incentives and subsidies are not doing anything to encourage private-sector investors .
" the state is doing its job , but do the individual investors have enough confidence to invest more in research and development ? " said pierre monhen , who teaches innovation policy at the united nations university in maastricht , the netherlands .
" there is a more cautious attitude in europe than in the us . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some entrepeneurs claim that with the proper political direction , european startups could do much better poor european political decisions hinder innovation , entrepeneurs say but several entrepreneurs at leweb maintained that it is a political problem , and less of a problem of entrepeneurship . european governments , and the european union itself , may be spending money , but it is not very effective .
johan staeul von holstein , who has most recently founded mycube , a social networking startup based in singapore , thinks innovation could be encouraged with judicious tax reforms .
" there 's as much capital as you can possibly imagine around , " he said .
" it 's just that the wrong people are sitting on the capital .
politicians need to understand the value of entrepreneurship and innovation and growth , and by giving huge tax benefits to entrepreneurs making their own decisions and putting large amounts of money in the hands of entrepreneurs : that would change the whole system in 24 hours . "
a more serious problem is cultural attitudes and bad ideas , according to tariq krim , one of europe 's most successful entrepreneurs .
he set up jolicloud , a company that makes a linux-based operating system which can be installed on any computer .
he adds that spending on innovation is misguided , and tends to go to a few large companies rather than lots of small ones .
in 2008 , france , for example , invested 99 million euros -lrb- $ 131 million -rrb- in a new search engine called quearo , which was supposed to be a european answer to google .
since then , essentially nothing has happened and the project appears to be dead .
" they should have rather give money to 20 start ups , " krim said .
“ it has to be a competitive state about ideas . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many european startups , like slense , limit themselves to only a few languages , like english - making the european market a lot smaller .
heterogeneous language , culture slow european tech startups but beyond poor investment , the single european market may have simplified the movement of labor and money , but it has not created a single customer base .
freddy mini , who runs netvibes , a start-up that creates personalised dashboards on the web , pointed out that american companies automatically have a leg up , as they have a much more culturally and linguistically homogenous employment and customer base than their european counterparts .
in other words , he noted , european companies have to hire specialists for each corner of the continent .
" the first advice is forget your culture - get to the culture of the country where you live and hire people from the ground , " he said .
author : molly guinness , paris editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de niche search engines pick needles out of web haystacks several new search engines focus on segments of the web , like social networking or microblogging sites .
they are not looking to challenge google , but they are letting users search places that google ca n't reach .
-lrb- 22.09.2010 -rrb- swedish start-up offers new micro-donation system flattr lets readers donate by clicking buttons on blogs and other websites .
some sites have reported income of over 1,000 euros as a result of the new company .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- ‘ hubs ’ offer like-minded businesses a shared home as more people start businesses from home with nothing but a laptop , the rapidly growing ' hub ' network aims to create a mutually beneficial work environment that provides some of the perks of working for a larger firm .
-lrb- 21.07.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany , india to work together on security council reform -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united nations -pipe- 13.12.2010 germany , india to work together on security council reform großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : angela merkel met manmohan singh in berlin on saturday india 's prime minister manmohan singh visited berlin for talks with german chancellor angela merkel .
both countries begin their term as non-permanent members of the security council on january 1 . the indian premier was in europe to attend the 11th india-eu summit in brussels . berlin had not originally been on manmohan singh 's itinerary .
singh extended his europe trip by another eight hours at the invitation of chancellor merkel and visited the german capital on saturday .
eyeing permanent seats on the security council , india and germany have decided to work together in reforming the united nations . both agreed that it is high time to push the matter " hard " .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in october , the un general assembly elected both germany and india as non-permanent members of the security council close cooperation after discussing the issue with chancellor merkel , the indian prime minister said , " india and germany will both be in the united nations security council in 2011 and 2012 .
we will work closely with germany both bilaterally and within the g4 to enhance the effectiveness of the security council as well as to support the expansion of the permanent and non-permanent categories of its membership . "
the g4 is an alliance of four countries -lrb- india , germany , japan and brazil -rrb- , whose members support one in their effort to obtain a permanent security council seat .
under the leadership of india and brazil , many other developing coutries have been pushing for reforms in the un setup , demanding that the security council include members from all parts of the world .
growing support for india as a superpower in the making , india has made tremendous efforts to secure its place among the world 's elite of un veto powers .
recently , it received a major boost when us president barack obama , during his trip to india , supported the indian demand for permanent membership in the security council .
a few weeks later , french president nicolas sarkozy echoed obama 's commitment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama in new delhi as russian president dmitry medvedev and the chinese prime minister wen jiabao are also visiting india soon , new delhi is hoping to get their endorsement too .
both china and russia are permanent members of the un security council .
besides that , many other countries have already given their nod to the indian request .
chancellor merkel especially hailed president obama 's endorsement of india .
germany being the biggest economic power of europe and india the biggest democracy in the world , both countries know that together they can move faster and further than on their own . chancellor merkel said , " now that india and germany have got non-permanent membership in the security council , both countries will have an interest to see that the reform gets done . "
re-thinking the post-war world order after world war ii , when the world was desperate for stability and lasting peace , the united nations were formed with the security council as its core institution .
this body is meant to ensure international peace and security .
it has 15 members including five permanent member states .
the us , russia -lrb- formerly the soviet union -rrb- , great britain , france and china are in this elite group that can veto any resolution passed by the world 's supreme body .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations security council chamber in new york every january five non-permanent members vacate their seats for new member states and thus every two years all the ten non-permanent members are changed .
colombia , south africa , portugal , india and germany are new on the council , while austria , japan , mexico , uganda and turkey are leaving it in january 2011 .
in 1945 , germany did not qualify to become a member of the big 5 , having started and lost the war . as for india , it was just a colony of great britain which was later divided into two countries , india and pakistan .
but in the course of time , the equations have changed .
after china , india is today the leading country in the so-called third world .
germany has recently questioned the " improper " representation in the security saying that africa and south america have no permanent seat , while asia is also under-represented .
but despite their joint effort , the path towards fundamental un reforms will not be easy .
both the general assembly of the 192 members strong united nations and the security council would have to agree on it .
author : anwar jamal ashraf -lrb- berlin -rrb- editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany and india push for huge trade increase german chancellor angela merkel and indian prime minister manmohan singh have announced their aim to increase bilateral trade by more than 50 percent over the next two years following a meeting in berlin .
-lrb- 11.12.2010 -rrb- german foreign minister westerwelle 's first visit to india india and germany have given a new impetus to their joint efforts for expansion of the un security council .
both countries also discussed ways to deepen their counter-terrorism cooperation .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- indian business leaders count on germany during his three-day visit to duesseldorf and berlin last week , india 's commerce and industry minister anand sharma emphasized the need to step up cooperation with germany .
-lrb- 11.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic india and the eu hope to finalize a free trade agreement by early 2011 , as anwar jamal ashraf reports from brussels 9798 threatened communities preserving tribal communities and their habitats can help sustain the environment .
dr. james albert of the society for threatened peoples speaks about the dangers to tribals in india listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 23.06.11 countdown to the general elections in thailand former khmer rouge leaders face tribunal in cambodia finding agent orange : investigating us bases in south korea podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile security indian foreign secretary nirupama rao is in islamabad for peace talks with the pakistani government .
dw correspondent murali krishnan talks about the latest developments bangladesh bangladesh became a sovereign independent state in 1971 .
shameem chowdhuri of radio bangladesh betar talks about his experiences as a young freedom fighter fukushima japanese politics the japanese government can not decide who will foot the bill for the country 's nuclear disaster .
women living in fear a new poll lists afghanistan , india and pakistan as the most dangerous countries for women . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 13.12.2010 uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stop and listen this christmas , says cage against the machine a uk campaign aims to rock the christmas single charts - with the sound of silence .
they 're using experimentalist composer john cage 's masterpiece of silence , 4 ' 33 " , to get people listening to the needs around them . it all started as a joke . last year , a uk campaign succeeded in its aim of preventing the winner of casting show x-factor from becoming christmas number one by encouraging people to help " killing in the name " by us band rage against the machine top the charts . this year , uk art therapy masters student dave hilliard quipped to his friends , " let 's get silence to number one . " " it was meant to be a joke , " julie hilliard , dave hilliard 's wife and co-initiator of cage against the machine -lrb- catm -rrb- , told deutsche welle .
" but it captured the imagination of so many people . " when it comes to getting silence on the charts , the avant-garde work " 4 ' 33 " by american experimental composer john cage -lrb- 1912-1992 -rrb- is the first that comes to mind .
the score calls for any combination of musicians to go on stage and play absolutely nothing for exactly four minutes and 33 seconds .
for some , an agonizing exercise in patience ; for others , ear-opening proof that escape from the unceasing aural bombardment of our multimedia society is , indeed , possible . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john cage was fascinated by incidental sound open your ears the hilliards , along with long-time friend and music pr expert john rogers , are less interested in making a profound artistic statement and keener raising money for a few underfunded charities . starting monday , december 13 , supporters can purchase a specially recorded version of cage 's groundbreaking 1952 work , which included the participation of artists like aeroplane , billy bragg and kooks - though , of course , they ca n't really be heard . they recorded their own version to ensure that the revenue went directly to selected charities , but also because most other editions separate the work 's three movements into three tracks - but only single tracks are eligible for the single charts . revenue from the recordings and from ads on the groups website go to charities like c.a.l.m. , which provides support to young men considering suicide , the british tinnitus association , and organizations that offer music education to underprivileged children . " when you stop talking and you start to look at the world around you , you can see all these other needs that are there , besides your own , " said julie hilliard , adding that the charities they chose particularly reflected their appeal to stop and listen . ' cage would approve ' new york-based john cage expert richard kostelanetz said he did n't think the composer would have objected to the use of his work in this way . " he lived on a very busy avenue and did n't own a record player , because he preferred to listen to the noise outside his house , " kostelanetz told deutsche welle . the cage expert added that the setting of the work is crucial to making it a work of art and that the irony is so much stronger when it is performed by renowned artists - like those involved in catm .
the audience is bound to listen even more intently , knowing what they could be hearing from those artists , if they were actually playing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the black eyed peas are number one this week taking back the charts with more than 80,000 facebook fans as of december 13 , cage against the machine may be well on its way to rocking the uk 's christmas charts . they 'll have stiff competition from black eyed peas , who top this week 's singles chart in the uk with " the time -lrb- dirty bit -rrb- " and from matt cardle , the most recent winner of the uk 's popular casting show , x factor . the media has largely focused on the cage against the machine campaign as a counterpoint to market-tailored pop ballade and , specifically , to x factor .
however , hilliard said she and her husband have nothing against the casting show , but simply are n't interested in watching it . " if you do n't like it , do n't turn it on ; if you do n't like the record , do n't buy it , " she said . and if cage against the machine has its way , christmas eve in the uk will truly be a silent night - or at least one filled with incidental noise . author : kate bowen editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de music hotel brings new beat to berlin berlin 's new music hotel , nhow , combines luxury , design and quality musical facilities .
it hopes to bridge the gap between international and local artists - but the city 's underground scene is n't easily impressed .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- young german pianist unites classical music with world of video games benyamin nuss , 21 , has been wowing audiences in some of europe 's finest concert halls with solo piano interpretations of video game music by nobuo uematsu .
he spoke to deutsche welle about this unusual project .
-lrb- 04.12.2010 -rrb- france to start carte musique digital music subsidy plan france hopes to change young shoppers ' habits by subsidizing the sale of music with a " music card . "
but the government has not yet said which online services people will be able to use to make purchases .
-lrb- 27.10.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
culture calendar july happenings from wagner to world music - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
recent picture galleries car fetish exhibition berlin fashion week day of the kiss ai weiwei , the photographer podcast series traveling on a budget ?
dw presents shoestring guides to european cities .
get all the episodes subscribe on itunes get the rss feed podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.12.2010 stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is another winter of discontent for stuttgart having fired jens keller after only 60 days in charge , stuttgart are rolling the dice again with bruno labbadia , formerly of leverkusen and hamburg .
but can he handle the toughest job in german football ? what do jogi loew , ralf rangnick , matthias sammer , giovanni trapattoni and christian gross have in common ?
if you said that they are all successful coaches who have been fired by stuttgart , you 'd be right .
that might be some small consolation to jens keller , who was axed on sunday after stuttgart suffered an unlucky 2-1 loss to hanover .
that defeat left only moenchengladbach between stuttgart and the very bottom of the table .
" we 're stuck deep in the muck , " stuttgart 's technical director , fredi bobic , said after the hanover disappointment .
" i 've got my thoughts about how we 're going to get out of it . "
bobic declined to elaborate on those mental processes , but stuttgart fans at least have a name and a face to pin to them .
the question is : does bruno labbadia - along with gross and keller , stuttgart 's third coach this season - stand a chance at the hardest club in the league to lead ?
plus and minuses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bruno labbadia is going to have to put his thinking cap on bobic may be counting on what might be called the “ labbadia effect . ”
at each of his previous two teams , big bruno 's charges responded well to his tactical instructions and got off to good starts .
a series of wins such as labbadia engineered at leverkusen and hamburg in 2008 and 2009 respectively would probably be enough for stuttgart , whose only goal right now is to avoid relegation .
that 's not out of the question .
stuttgart , who are currently on 12 points , have been on the losing end of a number of controversial refereeing decisions this season and could argue that their current position in the table does n't accurately reflect their quality .
on the other hand , no one would make the case that this is a good team .
the squad has been unable to compensate for the departures of sami khedira and jens lehmann , veteran star mauro camoranesi has spent more time on his tuchus than on the turf , and chemistry between younger and older players is rumored to be quite poor .
that does n't play to labbadia 's strengths .
at both leverkusen and hamburg , he was criticized for being unapproachable and arrogant , and there were unconfirmed rumors about romantic liaisons , or attempts at such , between him and players ' wives .
whatever the truth may be , both teams suffered drastic downward spirals after their hot starts with him in charge , and he departed after less than a year in charge .
now he 's sitting on a true powder keg , a team whose supporters have in the past besieged their own team bus when they 've been disappointed by results .
labbadia 's first task is to win over those fans , and one thing is clear : it ai n't gonna be easy .
the final step toward relegation ?
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stuttgart fans wish the club had n't sold mario gomez if the new coach had any illusions about what he was getting himself into , he needed only surf briefly on the internet to dispel them .
" why labbadia , " one supporter asked on the online forum of the mass circulation bild newspaper .
" he 'll be gone quicker than he can settle on a starting 11 . "
indeed , the overarching tone of the blogosphere was sarcasm .
" the best management in the league has pulled off another brilliant move and hired a much heralded coach guaranteed to bring stability and continuity to the club , " wrote a user on the football forum of die welt newspaper .
" it looks as if stuttgart have finally committed themselves to getting relegated . "
that comment was typical of many others in blaming management for the team 's current misery .
in particular , supporters are unhappy at the club 's penchant for selling stars .
along with khedira , mario gomez and kevin kuranyi are two of the prominent and popular players stuttgart have flogged off in recent years .
if labbadia does n't pan out quickly , stuttgart could be in the hunt for a dubious record - the greatest number of coaches employed by any one club in a single season .
and if bruno does have to go , the odds are that bobic and others within stuttgart 's management will be going with him .
author : jefferson chase editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hanover hit new high with win over struggling stuttgart hanover continued to surpass expectations , rising to second in the standings with a 2-1 win over beleaguered stuttgart .
now , just third from bottom , stuttgart has decided to dump its coach , jens keller .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- ex-amateur coaches at stuttgart , cologne face uphill battle in jens keller and frank schaefer respectively , stuttgart and cologne hope that an in-house promotion will turn the tide .
but former amateur coaches seldom have long-term success in the bundesliga .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- stuttgart need a reality check as gross takes the fall stuttgart packed off its third coach in three seasons when christian gross was shown the door after a woeful start to the season .
but the club 's position is unlikely to improve until deeper problems are resolved .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live people and politics - the political magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.12.2010 stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is another winter of discontent for stuttgart having fired jens keller after only 60 days in charge , stuttgart are rolling the dice again with bruno labbadia , formerly of leverkusen and hamburg .
but can he handle the toughest job in german football ? what do jogi loew , ralf rangnick , matthias sammer , giovanni trapattoni and christian gross have in common ?
if you said that they are all successful coaches who have been fired by stuttgart , you 'd be right .
that might be some small consolation to jens keller , who was axed on sunday after stuttgart suffered an unlucky 2-1 loss to hanover .
that defeat left only moenchengladbach between stuttgart and the very bottom of the table .
" we 're stuck deep in the muck , " stuttgart 's technical director , fredi bobic , said after the hanover disappointment .
" i 've got my thoughts about how we 're going to get out of it . "
bobic declined to elaborate on those mental processes , but stuttgart fans at least have a name and a face to pin to them .
the question is : does bruno labbadia - along with gross and keller , stuttgart 's third coach this season - stand a chance at the hardest club in the league to lead ?
plus and minuses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bruno labbadia is going to have to put his thinking cap on bobic may be counting on what might be called the “ labbadia effect . ”
at each of his previous two teams , big bruno 's charges responded well to his tactical instructions and got off to good starts .
a series of wins such as labbadia engineered at leverkusen and hamburg in 2008 and 2009 respectively would probably be enough for stuttgart , whose only goal right now is to avoid relegation .
that 's not out of the question .
stuttgart , who are currently on 12 points , have been on the losing end of a number of controversial refereeing decisions this season and could argue that their current position in the table does n't accurately reflect their quality .
on the other hand , no one would make the case that this is a good team .
the squad has been unable to compensate for the departures of sami khedira and jens lehmann , veteran star mauro camoranesi has spent more time on his tuchus than on the turf , and chemistry between younger and older players is rumored to be quite poor .
that does n't play to labbadia 's strengths .
at both leverkusen and hamburg , he was criticized for being unapproachable and arrogant , and there were unconfirmed rumors about romantic liaisons , or attempts at such , between him and players ' wives .
whatever the truth may be , both teams suffered drastic downward spirals after their hot starts with him in charge , and he departed after less than a year in charge .
now he 's sitting on a true powder keg , a team whose supporters have in the past besieged their own team bus when they 've been disappointed by results .
labbadia 's first task is to win over those fans , and one thing is clear : it ai n't gonna be easy .
the final step toward relegation ?
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stuttgart fans wish the club had n't sold mario gomez if the new coach had any illusions about what he was getting himself into , he needed only surf briefly on the internet to dispel them .
" why labbadia , " one supporter asked on the online forum of the mass circulation bild newspaper .
" he 'll be gone quicker than he can settle on a starting 11 . "
indeed , the overarching tone of the blogosphere was sarcasm .
" the best management in the league has pulled off another brilliant move and hired a much heralded coach guaranteed to bring stability and continuity to the club , " wrote a user on the football forum of die welt newspaper .
" it looks as if stuttgart have finally committed themselves to getting relegated . "
that comment was typical of many others in blaming management for the team 's current misery .
in particular , supporters are unhappy at the club 's penchant for selling stars .
along with khedira , mario gomez and kevin kuranyi are two of the prominent and popular players stuttgart have flogged off in recent years .
if labbadia does n't pan out quickly , stuttgart could be in the hunt for a dubious record - the greatest number of coaches employed by any one club in a single season .
and if bruno does have to go , the odds are that bobic and others within stuttgart 's management will be going with him .
author : jefferson chase editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hanover hit new high with win over struggling stuttgart hanover continued to surpass expectations , rising to second in the standings with a 2-1 win over beleaguered stuttgart .
now , just third from bottom , stuttgart has decided to dump its coach , jens keller .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- ex-amateur coaches at stuttgart , cologne face uphill battle in jens keller and frank schaefer respectively , stuttgart and cologne hope that an in-house promotion will turn the tide .
but former amateur coaches seldom have long-term success in the bundesliga .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- stuttgart need a reality check as gross takes the fall stuttgart packed off its third coach in three seasons when christian gross was shown the door after a woeful start to the season .
but the club 's position is unlikely to improve until deeper problems are resolved .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- 9798 dw-tv europe live journal - news with reporters we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.12.2010 stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is another winter of discontent for stuttgart having fired jens keller after only 60 days in charge , stuttgart are rolling the dice again with bruno labbadia , formerly of leverkusen and hamburg .
but can he handle the toughest job in german football ? what do jogi loew , ralf rangnick , matthias sammer , giovanni trapattoni and christian gross have in common ?
if you said that they are all successful coaches who have been fired by stuttgart , you 'd be right .
that might be some small consolation to jens keller , who was axed on sunday after stuttgart suffered an unlucky 2-1 loss to hanover .
that defeat left only moenchengladbach between stuttgart and the very bottom of the table .
" we 're stuck deep in the muck , " stuttgart 's technical director , fredi bobic , said after the hanover disappointment .
" i 've got my thoughts about how we 're going to get out of it . "
bobic declined to elaborate on those mental processes , but stuttgart fans at least have a name and a face to pin to them .
the question is : does bruno labbadia - along with gross and keller , stuttgart 's third coach this season - stand a chance at the hardest club in the league to lead ?
plus and minuses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bruno labbadia is going to have to put his thinking cap on bobic may be counting on what might be called the “ labbadia effect . ”
at each of his previous two teams , big bruno 's charges responded well to his tactical instructions and got off to good starts .
a series of wins such as labbadia engineered at leverkusen and hamburg in 2008 and 2009 respectively would probably be enough for stuttgart , whose only goal right now is to avoid relegation .
that 's not out of the question .
stuttgart , who are currently on 12 points , have been on the losing end of a number of controversial refereeing decisions this season and could argue that their current position in the table does n't accurately reflect their quality .
on the other hand , no one would make the case that this is a good team .
the squad has been unable to compensate for the departures of sami khedira and jens lehmann , veteran star mauro camoranesi has spent more time on his tuchus than on the turf , and chemistry between younger and older players is rumored to be quite poor .
that does n't play to labbadia 's strengths .
at both leverkusen and hamburg , he was criticized for being unapproachable and arrogant , and there were unconfirmed rumors about romantic liaisons , or attempts at such , between him and players ' wives .
whatever the truth may be , both teams suffered drastic downward spirals after their hot starts with him in charge , and he departed after less than a year in charge .
now he 's sitting on a true powder keg , a team whose supporters have in the past besieged their own team bus when they 've been disappointed by results .
labbadia 's first task is to win over those fans , and one thing is clear : it ai n't gonna be easy .
the final step toward relegation ?
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stuttgart fans wish the club had n't sold mario gomez if the new coach had any illusions about what he was getting himself into , he needed only surf briefly on the internet to dispel them .
" why labbadia , " one supporter asked on the online forum of the mass circulation bild newspaper .
" he 'll be gone quicker than he can settle on a starting 11 . "
indeed , the overarching tone of the blogosphere was sarcasm .
" the best management in the league has pulled off another brilliant move and hired a much heralded coach guaranteed to bring stability and continuity to the club , " wrote a user on the football forum of die welt newspaper .
" it looks as if stuttgart have finally committed themselves to getting relegated . "
that comment was typical of many others in blaming management for the team 's current misery .
in particular , supporters are unhappy at the club 's penchant for selling stars .
along with khedira , mario gomez and kevin kuranyi are two of the prominent and popular players stuttgart have flogged off in recent years .
if labbadia does n't pan out quickly , stuttgart could be in the hunt for a dubious record - the greatest number of coaches employed by any one club in a single season .
and if bruno does have to go , the odds are that bobic and others within stuttgart 's management will be going with him .
author : jefferson chase editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hanover hit new high with win over struggling stuttgart hanover continued to surpass expectations , rising to second in the standings with a 2-1 win over beleaguered stuttgart .
now , just third from bottom , stuttgart has decided to dump its coach , jens keller .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- ex-amateur coaches at stuttgart , cologne face uphill battle in jens keller and frank schaefer respectively , stuttgart and cologne hope that an in-house promotion will turn the tide .
but former amateur coaches seldom have long-term success in the bundesliga .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- stuttgart need a reality check as gross takes the fall stuttgart packed off its third coach in three seasons when christian gross was shown the door after a woeful start to the season .
but the club 's position is unlikely to improve until deeper problems are resolved .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- feedback will labbadia succeed at stuttgart ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live in-box -lsb- in-box -rsb- feedback from around the world listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.12.2010 stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is another winter of discontent for stuttgart having fired jens keller after only 60 days in charge , stuttgart are rolling the dice again with bruno labbadia , formerly of leverkusen and hamburg .
but can he handle the toughest job in german football ? what do jogi loew , ralf rangnick , matthias sammer , giovanni trapattoni and christian gross have in common ?
if you said that they are all successful coaches who have been fired by stuttgart , you 'd be right .
that might be some small consolation to jens keller , who was axed on sunday after stuttgart suffered an unlucky 2-1 loss to hanover .
that defeat left only moenchengladbach between stuttgart and the very bottom of the table .
" we 're stuck deep in the muck , " stuttgart 's technical director , fredi bobic , said after the hanover disappointment .
" i 've got my thoughts about how we 're going to get out of it . "
bobic declined to elaborate on those mental processes , but stuttgart fans at least have a name and a face to pin to them .
the question is : does bruno labbadia - along with gross and keller , stuttgart 's third coach this season - stand a chance at the hardest club in the league to lead ?
plus and minuses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bruno labbadia is going to have to put his thinking cap on bobic may be counting on what might be called the “ labbadia effect . ”
at each of his previous two teams , big bruno 's charges responded well to his tactical instructions and got off to good starts .
a series of wins such as labbadia engineered at leverkusen and hamburg in 2008 and 2009 respectively would probably be enough for stuttgart , whose only goal right now is to avoid relegation .
that 's not out of the question .
stuttgart , who are currently on 12 points , have been on the losing end of a number of controversial refereeing decisions this season and could argue that their current position in the table does n't accurately reflect their quality .
on the other hand , no one would make the case that this is a good team .
the squad has been unable to compensate for the departures of sami khedira and jens lehmann , veteran star mauro camoranesi has spent more time on his tuchus than on the turf , and chemistry between younger and older players is rumored to be quite poor .
that does n't play to labbadia 's strengths .
at both leverkusen and hamburg , he was criticized for being unapproachable and arrogant , and there were unconfirmed rumors about romantic liaisons , or attempts at such , between him and players ' wives .
whatever the truth may be , both teams suffered drastic downward spirals after their hot starts with him in charge , and he departed after less than a year in charge .
now he 's sitting on a true powder keg , a team whose supporters have in the past besieged their own team bus when they 've been disappointed by results .
labbadia 's first task is to win over those fans , and one thing is clear : it ai n't gonna be easy .
the final step toward relegation ?
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stuttgart fans wish the club had n't sold mario gomez if the new coach had any illusions about what he was getting himself into , he needed only surf briefly on the internet to dispel them .
" why labbadia , " one supporter asked on the online forum of the mass circulation bild newspaper .
" he 'll be gone quicker than he can settle on a starting 11 . "
indeed , the overarching tone of the blogosphere was sarcasm .
" the best management in the league has pulled off another brilliant move and hired a much heralded coach guaranteed to bring stability and continuity to the club , " wrote a user on the football forum of die welt newspaper .
" it looks as if stuttgart have finally committed themselves to getting relegated . "
that comment was typical of many others in blaming management for the team 's current misery .
in particular , supporters are unhappy at the club 's penchant for selling stars .
along with khedira , mario gomez and kevin kuranyi are two of the prominent and popular players stuttgart have flogged off in recent years .
if labbadia does n't pan out quickly , stuttgart could be in the hunt for a dubious record - the greatest number of coaches employed by any one club in a single season .
and if bruno does have to go , the odds are that bobic and others within stuttgart 's management will be going with him .
author : jefferson chase editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hanover hit new high with win over struggling stuttgart hanover continued to surpass expectations , rising to second in the standings with a 2-1 win over beleaguered stuttgart .
now , just third from bottom , stuttgart has decided to dump its coach , jens keller .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- ex-amateur coaches at stuttgart , cologne face uphill battle in jens keller and frank schaefer respectively , stuttgart and cologne hope that an in-house promotion will turn the tide .
but former amateur coaches seldom have long-term success in the bundesliga .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- stuttgart need a reality check as gross takes the fall stuttgart packed off its third coach in three seasons when christian gross was shown the door after a woeful start to the season .
but the club 's position is unlikely to improve until deeper problems are resolved .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- feedback will labbadia succeed at stuttgart ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.12.2010 stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is another winter of discontent for stuttgart having fired jens keller after only 60 days in charge , stuttgart are rolling the dice again with bruno labbadia , formerly of leverkusen and hamburg .
but can he handle the toughest job in german football ? what do jogi loew , ralf rangnick , matthias sammer , giovanni trapattoni and christian gross have in common ?
if you said that they are all successful coaches who have been fired by stuttgart , you 'd be right .
that might be some small consolation to jens keller , who was axed on sunday after stuttgart suffered an unlucky 2-1 loss to hanover .
that defeat left only moenchengladbach between stuttgart and the very bottom of the table .
" we 're stuck deep in the muck , " stuttgart 's technical director , fredi bobic , said after the hanover disappointment .
" i 've got my thoughts about how we 're going to get out of it . "
bobic declined to elaborate on those mental processes , but stuttgart fans at least have a name and a face to pin to them .
the question is : does bruno labbadia - along with gross and keller , stuttgart 's third coach this season - stand a chance at the hardest club in the league to lead ?
plus and minuses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bruno labbadia is going to have to put his thinking cap on bobic may be counting on what might be called the “ labbadia effect . ”
at each of his previous two teams , big bruno 's charges responded well to his tactical instructions and got off to good starts .
a series of wins such as labbadia engineered at leverkusen and hamburg in 2008 and 2009 respectively would probably be enough for stuttgart , whose only goal right now is to avoid relegation .
that 's not out of the question .
stuttgart , who are currently on 12 points , have been on the losing end of a number of controversial refereeing decisions this season and could argue that their current position in the table does n't accurately reflect their quality .
on the other hand , no one would make the case that this is a good team .
the squad has been unable to compensate for the departures of sami khedira and jens lehmann , veteran star mauro camoranesi has spent more time on his tuchus than on the turf , and chemistry between younger and older players is rumored to be quite poor .
that does n't play to labbadia 's strengths .
at both leverkusen and hamburg , he was criticized for being unapproachable and arrogant , and there were unconfirmed rumors about romantic liaisons , or attempts at such , between him and players ' wives .
whatever the truth may be , both teams suffered drastic downward spirals after their hot starts with him in charge , and he departed after less than a year in charge .
now he 's sitting on a true powder keg , a team whose supporters have in the past besieged their own team bus when they 've been disappointed by results .
labbadia 's first task is to win over those fans , and one thing is clear : it ai n't gonna be easy .
the final step toward relegation ?
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stuttgart fans wish the club had n't sold mario gomez if the new coach had any illusions about what he was getting himself into , he needed only surf briefly on the internet to dispel them .
" why labbadia , " one supporter asked on the online forum of the mass circulation bild newspaper .
" he 'll be gone quicker than he can settle on a starting 11 . "
indeed , the overarching tone of the blogosphere was sarcasm .
" the best management in the league has pulled off another brilliant move and hired a much heralded coach guaranteed to bring stability and continuity to the club , " wrote a user on the football forum of die welt newspaper .
" it looks as if stuttgart have finally committed themselves to getting relegated . "
that comment was typical of many others in blaming management for the team 's current misery .
in particular , supporters are unhappy at the club 's penchant for selling stars .
along with khedira , mario gomez and kevin kuranyi are two of the prominent and popular players stuttgart have flogged off in recent years .
if labbadia does n't pan out quickly , stuttgart could be in the hunt for a dubious record - the greatest number of coaches employed by any one club in a single season .
and if bruno does have to go , the odds are that bobic and others within stuttgart 's management will be going with him .
author : jefferson chase editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hanover hit new high with win over struggling stuttgart hanover continued to surpass expectations , rising to second in the standings with a 2-1 win over beleaguered stuttgart .
now , just third from bottom , stuttgart has decided to dump its coach , jens keller .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- ex-amateur coaches at stuttgart , cologne face uphill battle in jens keller and frank schaefer respectively , stuttgart and cologne hope that an in-house promotion will turn the tide .
but former amateur coaches seldom have long-term success in the bundesliga .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- stuttgart need a reality check as gross takes the fall stuttgart packed off its third coach in three seasons when christian gross was shown the door after a woeful start to the season .
but the club 's position is unlikely to improve until deeper problems are resolved .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- feedback will labbadia succeed at stuttgart ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 dw-tv europe live sondersendung we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stress tests doubted as ireland suffers from bank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.12.2010 stress tests doubted as ireland suffers from bank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : are the eu 's bank stress tests accurate enough ?
ireland is floundering under the expense of its bank bailout , but irish banks passed the eu-wide stress tests in july .
some now dismiss the tests as nothing more than a ' placebo ' for the market . when the eu-wide bank stress test results were made public in july , skepticism soon followed .
after all , just seven of 91 banks failed , leading some to believe the tests had been too easy .
none of ireland 's banks failed .
yet the country floundered under the sheer expense of bailing out and reforming its financial system .
in private , the chief financial officer of a european bank recently referred to the stress tests conducted over the past year as nothing more than a " placebo for the market . "
gerhard hofmann , a board member of the national association of german cooperative banks -lrb- bvr -rrb- , is skeptical about the accuracy of the tests .
he is n't aware of any cases in which they " actually had a high level of revelatory value , or a high level of predictive power in regards to future problem areas , " he told deutsche welle .
" what is put under stress today is most likely not tomorrow 's problem . "
first public results bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german financial regulator bafin carried out stress tests in germany according to benjamin fischer , a spokesman for german financial regulator bafin , three german banks were subjected to the first european union-wide stress tests in 2009 .
those results were not published .
the number then jumped to 15 in 2010 , although one bank was the subsidiary of an italian bank and was tested by that country 's financial regulator .
the results of these tests were published .
" it was a novelty that the results were made public , " fischer told deutsche welle .
" naturally , it made working on the stress tests more difficult because the attention was significantly more present . "
stress tests , according to fischer , are hypothetical instruments normally used in the banking industry .
" banks and regulators use stress tests as a kind of early-warning system to identify possible weaknesses ahead of time , " he said .
each eu nation carried out a test prescribed by the committee of european banking supervisors -lrb- cebs -rrb- .
while another stress test is likely in 2011 , it remains to be seen whether or not results will be made public .
a spokesman for cebs declined to comment .
according to the central bank of ireland , the irish stress tests were carried out with higher loan loss rates being applied than actually required by cebs .
still , ireland 's finances buckled and its debt rating plummeted as the country scrambled to save banks teetering on the edge of collapse .
ireland will now receive a bailout from the eu and the international monetary fund worth 85 billion euros -lrb- $ 112 billion -rrb- .
banks tested at status quo michael schroeder , an economist with the centre for european economic research in mannheim , said he does n't believe the irish crisis invalidates the cebs stress tests .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : patrick honohan 's central bank of ireland carried out the stress tests in ireland " the banks were tested at status quo ... and at that point they had already passed on some of their problems to the government , " he told deutsche welle .
each individual bank was placed under artificial stress , schroeder says , but a different picture , he argues , would likely emerge if the pressure were applied system-wide .
" the problem with the financial crisis was that many banks had similar portfolios and reacted similarly – in that they wanted to get rid of their portfolios , " he said .
" i do n't believe the tests depicted the crisis situation with complete accuracy . "
schroeder advocates a method of risk analysis called covar -lrb- conditional value at risk -rrb- , which is capable of simulating " how the portfolio of a bank reacts when there is a shock in all other banks . "
in other words , covar can be used to gain insight into chain reactions throughout a financial system .
it is gaining support throughout the financial world , according to schroeder .
in general , he believes , transparency in stress testing is a worthy objective .
" there was a lot of discussion about whether to publicize the results , " schroeder said .
" if the information is reliable and accurately represents specific problems then , yes , i would publicize it .
those who are active in the market and deal in stocks and investment on a large scale should know about it . "
market supplanted by european central bank one possible pitfall is that stress testing can backfire if publicized results turn out to be inaccurate .
bankers are currently fretting over whether ireland and other troubled eu countries will be able to fully repay government bonds .
to play it safe , they often turn to the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to deposit their assets and secure lines of credit .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future of the euro is linked with that of ireland fidel helmer of the hauck & aufhauser bank says industry-wide mistrust affects all players .
banks lend less among themselves , and the supply and demand for money is routed over the ecb instead of the open market .
" i think that deutsche bank , for instance , is under excellent leadership and will fetch excellent results , " he told deutsche welle .
nevertheless , the value of the bank 's stock took a nose dive this year .
that development is something helmer directly attributes to the cebs stress tests .
he said the tests were questionable and so far-reaching that they cast doubt even on healthy institutions .
author : gerhard schneibel / michael braun editor : john blau send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu divided over euro bonds , no increase in bailout funds there was no agreement on plans for joint euro bonds at a meeting of the eurozone finance ministers in brussels on monday , where the eurogroup decided against any increase in the rescue fund for debt-saddled countries .
-lrb- 06.12.2010 -rrb- euro is ' credible , ' not in crisis : trichet ecb president jean-claude trichet has moved to calm jittery financial markets by calling the euro ' credible ' and agreeing to continue the bank 's emergency bond-buying program to prop the struggling eurozone .
-lrb- 03.12.2010 -rrb- irish central bank chief expects ' substantial eu loan ' the head of ireland 's central bank has said the country will likely receive a multi-billion-euro loan to help save the country from financial meltdown .
this comes as an eu / imf mission is in dublin for emergency talks .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- ireland announces sweeping austerity measures to secure bailout the irish government has given details of its most stringent austerity plan ever , aimed at saving 15 billion euros over the next four years .
the cuts are necessary to secure a multi-billion-euro international bailout .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- ireland announces drastic budget cuts as eu bailout is officially approved european union finance ministers formally approved the 85-billion-euro rescue loan for crisis-stricken ireland on tuesday as the country announced the toughest domestic budget in its history .
-lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the irish government unveils a crisis budget -lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- eu leaders want ecb to buy government bonds -lrb- 02.12.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1869 : margarine patented dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stress tests doubted as ireland suffers from bank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.12.2010 stress tests doubted as ireland suffers from bank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : are the eu 's bank stress tests accurate enough ?
ireland is floundering under the expense of its bank bailout , but irish banks passed the eu-wide stress tests in july .
some now dismiss the tests as nothing more than a ' placebo ' for the market . when the eu-wide bank stress test results were made public in july , skepticism soon followed .
after all , just seven of 91 banks failed , leading some to believe the tests had been too easy .
none of ireland 's banks failed .
yet the country floundered under the sheer expense of bailing out and reforming its financial system .
in private , the chief financial officer of a european bank recently referred to the stress tests conducted over the past year as nothing more than a " placebo for the market . "
gerhard hofmann , a board member of the national association of german cooperative banks -lrb- bvr -rrb- , is skeptical about the accuracy of the tests .
he is n't aware of any cases in which they " actually had a high level of revelatory value , or a high level of predictive power in regards to future problem areas , " he told deutsche welle .
" what is put under stress today is most likely not tomorrow 's problem . "
first public results bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german financial regulator bafin carried out stress tests in germany according to benjamin fischer , a spokesman for german financial regulator bafin , three german banks were subjected to the first european union-wide stress tests in 2009 .
those results were not published .
the number then jumped to 15 in 2010 , although one bank was the subsidiary of an italian bank and was tested by that country 's financial regulator .
the results of these tests were published .
" it was a novelty that the results were made public , " fischer told deutsche welle .
" naturally , it made working on the stress tests more difficult because the attention was significantly more present . "
stress tests , according to fischer , are hypothetical instruments normally used in the banking industry .
" banks and regulators use stress tests as a kind of early-warning system to identify possible weaknesses ahead of time , " he said .
each eu nation carried out a test prescribed by the committee of european banking supervisors -lrb- cebs -rrb- .
while another stress test is likely in 2011 , it remains to be seen whether or not results will be made public .
a spokesman for cebs declined to comment .
according to the central bank of ireland , the irish stress tests were carried out with higher loan loss rates being applied than actually required by cebs .
still , ireland 's finances buckled and its debt rating plummeted as the country scrambled to save banks teetering on the edge of collapse .
ireland will now receive a bailout from the eu and the international monetary fund worth 85 billion euros -lrb- $ 112 billion -rrb- .
banks tested at status quo michael schroeder , an economist with the centre for european economic research in mannheim , said he does n't believe the irish crisis invalidates the cebs stress tests .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : patrick honohan 's central bank of ireland carried out the stress tests in ireland " the banks were tested at status quo ... and at that point they had already passed on some of their problems to the government , " he told deutsche welle .
each individual bank was placed under artificial stress , schroeder says , but a different picture , he argues , would likely emerge if the pressure were applied system-wide .
" the problem with the financial crisis was that many banks had similar portfolios and reacted similarly – in that they wanted to get rid of their portfolios , " he said .
" i do n't believe the tests depicted the crisis situation with complete accuracy . "
schroeder advocates a method of risk analysis called covar -lrb- conditional value at risk -rrb- , which is capable of simulating " how the portfolio of a bank reacts when there is a shock in all other banks . "
in other words , covar can be used to gain insight into chain reactions throughout a financial system .
it is gaining support throughout the financial world , according to schroeder .
in general , he believes , transparency in stress testing is a worthy objective .
" there was a lot of discussion about whether to publicize the results , " schroeder said .
" if the information is reliable and accurately represents specific problems then , yes , i would publicize it .
those who are active in the market and deal in stocks and investment on a large scale should know about it . "
market supplanted by european central bank one possible pitfall is that stress testing can backfire if publicized results turn out to be inaccurate .
bankers are currently fretting over whether ireland and other troubled eu countries will be able to fully repay government bonds .
to play it safe , they often turn to the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to deposit their assets and secure lines of credit .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future of the euro is linked with that of ireland fidel helmer of the hauck & aufhauser bank says industry-wide mistrust affects all players .
banks lend less among themselves , and the supply and demand for money is routed over the ecb instead of the open market .
" i think that deutsche bank , for instance , is under excellent leadership and will fetch excellent results , " he told deutsche welle .
nevertheless , the value of the bank 's stock took a nose dive this year .
that development is something helmer directly attributes to the cebs stress tests .
he said the tests were questionable and so far-reaching that they cast doubt even on healthy institutions .
author : gerhard schneibel / michael braun editor : john blau send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu divided over euro bonds , no increase in bailout funds there was no agreement on plans for joint euro bonds at a meeting of the eurozone finance ministers in brussels on monday , where the eurogroup decided against any increase in the rescue fund for debt-saddled countries .
-lrb- 06.12.2010 -rrb- euro is ' credible , ' not in crisis : trichet ecb president jean-claude trichet has moved to calm jittery financial markets by calling the euro ' credible ' and agreeing to continue the bank 's emergency bond-buying program to prop the struggling eurozone .
-lrb- 03.12.2010 -rrb- irish central bank chief expects ' substantial eu loan ' the head of ireland 's central bank has said the country will likely receive a multi-billion-euro loan to help save the country from financial meltdown .
this comes as an eu / imf mission is in dublin for emergency talks .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- ireland announces sweeping austerity measures to secure bailout the irish government has given details of its most stringent austerity plan ever , aimed at saving 15 billion euros over the next four years .
the cuts are necessary to secure a multi-billion-euro international bailout .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- ireland announces drastic budget cuts as eu bailout is officially approved european union finance ministers formally approved the 85-billion-euro rescue loan for crisis-stricken ireland on tuesday as the country announced the toughest domestic budget in its history .
-lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the irish government unveils a crisis budget -lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- eu leaders want ecb to buy government bonds -lrb- 02.12.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit reporter we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live learning by ear listen live stock exchange today in history 1886 : ludwig ii taken prisoner dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stress tests doubted as ireland suffers from bank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.12.2010 stress tests doubted as ireland suffers from bank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : are the eu 's bank stress tests accurate enough ?
ireland is floundering under the expense of its bank bailout , but irish banks passed the eu-wide stress tests in july .
some now dismiss the tests as nothing more than a ' placebo ' for the market . when the eu-wide bank stress test results were made public in july , skepticism soon followed .
after all , just seven of 91 banks failed , leading some to believe the tests had been too easy .
none of ireland 's banks failed .
yet the country floundered under the sheer expense of bailing out and reforming its financial system .
in private , the chief financial officer of a european bank recently referred to the stress tests conducted over the past year as nothing more than a " placebo for the market . "
gerhard hofmann , a board member of the national association of german cooperative banks -lrb- bvr -rrb- , is skeptical about the accuracy of the tests .
he is n't aware of any cases in which they " actually had a high level of revelatory value , or a high level of predictive power in regards to future problem areas , " he told deutsche welle .
" what is put under stress today is most likely not tomorrow 's problem . "
first public results bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german financial regulator bafin carried out stress tests in germany according to benjamin fischer , a spokesman for german financial regulator bafin , three german banks were subjected to the first european union-wide stress tests in 2009 .
those results were not published .
the number then jumped to 15 in 2010 , although one bank was the subsidiary of an italian bank and was tested by that country 's financial regulator .
the results of these tests were published .
" it was a novelty that the results were made public , " fischer told deutsche welle .
" naturally , it made working on the stress tests more difficult because the attention was significantly more present . "
stress tests , according to fischer , are hypothetical instruments normally used in the banking industry .
" banks and regulators use stress tests as a kind of early-warning system to identify possible weaknesses ahead of time , " he said .
each eu nation carried out a test prescribed by the committee of european banking supervisors -lrb- cebs -rrb- .
while another stress test is likely in 2011 , it remains to be seen whether or not results will be made public .
a spokesman for cebs declined to comment .
according to the central bank of ireland , the irish stress tests were carried out with higher loan loss rates being applied than actually required by cebs .
still , ireland 's finances buckled and its debt rating plummeted as the country scrambled to save banks teetering on the edge of collapse .
ireland will now receive a bailout from the eu and the international monetary fund worth 85 billion euros -lrb- $ 112 billion -rrb- .
banks tested at status quo michael schroeder , an economist with the centre for european economic research in mannheim , said he does n't believe the irish crisis invalidates the cebs stress tests .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : patrick honohan 's central bank of ireland carried out the stress tests in ireland " the banks were tested at status quo ... and at that point they had already passed on some of their problems to the government , " he told deutsche welle .
each individual bank was placed under artificial stress , schroeder says , but a different picture , he argues , would likely emerge if the pressure were applied system-wide .
" the problem with the financial crisis was that many banks had similar portfolios and reacted similarly – in that they wanted to get rid of their portfolios , " he said .
" i do n't believe the tests depicted the crisis situation with complete accuracy . "
schroeder advocates a method of risk analysis called covar -lrb- conditional value at risk -rrb- , which is capable of simulating " how the portfolio of a bank reacts when there is a shock in all other banks . "
in other words , covar can be used to gain insight into chain reactions throughout a financial system .
it is gaining support throughout the financial world , according to schroeder .
in general , he believes , transparency in stress testing is a worthy objective .
" there was a lot of discussion about whether to publicize the results , " schroeder said .
" if the information is reliable and accurately represents specific problems then , yes , i would publicize it .
those who are active in the market and deal in stocks and investment on a large scale should know about it . "
market supplanted by european central bank one possible pitfall is that stress testing can backfire if publicized results turn out to be inaccurate .
bankers are currently fretting over whether ireland and other troubled eu countries will be able to fully repay government bonds .
to play it safe , they often turn to the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to deposit their assets and secure lines of credit .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future of the euro is linked with that of ireland fidel helmer of the hauck & aufhauser bank says industry-wide mistrust affects all players .
banks lend less among themselves , and the supply and demand for money is routed over the ecb instead of the open market .
" i think that deutsche bank , for instance , is under excellent leadership and will fetch excellent results , " he told deutsche welle .
nevertheless , the value of the bank 's stock took a nose dive this year .
that development is something helmer directly attributes to the cebs stress tests .
he said the tests were questionable and so far-reaching that they cast doubt even on healthy institutions .
author : gerhard schneibel / michael braun editor : john blau send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu divided over euro bonds , no increase in bailout funds there was no agreement on plans for joint euro bonds at a meeting of the eurozone finance ministers in brussels on monday , where the eurogroup decided against any increase in the rescue fund for debt-saddled countries .
-lrb- 06.12.2010 -rrb- euro is ' credible , ' not in crisis : trichet ecb president jean-claude trichet has moved to calm jittery financial markets by calling the euro ' credible ' and agreeing to continue the bank 's emergency bond-buying program to prop the struggling eurozone .
-lrb- 03.12.2010 -rrb- irish central bank chief expects ' substantial eu loan ' the head of ireland 's central bank has said the country will likely receive a multi-billion-euro loan to help save the country from financial meltdown .
this comes as an eu / imf mission is in dublin for emergency talks .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- ireland announces sweeping austerity measures to secure bailout the irish government has given details of its most stringent austerity plan ever , aimed at saving 15 billion euros over the next four years .
the cuts are necessary to secure a multi-billion-euro international bailout .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- ireland announces drastic budget cuts as eu bailout is officially approved european union finance ministers formally approved the 85-billion-euro rescue loan for crisis-stricken ireland on tuesday as the country announced the toughest domestic budget in its history .
-lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the irish government unveils a crisis budget -lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- eu leaders want ecb to buy government bonds -lrb- 02.12.2010 -rrb- feedback how much confidence do you have in the eu banking stress tests ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week money , power and heavy metal : listen to the latest european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live banking get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
olkiluoto 3 - finland builds the world 's biggest nuclear power plant nuclear power plants : after a shutdown peter paffhausen : from nuclear manager to green energy advocate heightened fears : geiger counters fly off the shelves stock exchange today in history 1957 : treaty of rome © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stress tests doubted as ireland suffers from bank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.12.2010 stress tests doubted as ireland suffers from bank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : are the eu 's bank stress tests accurate enough ?
ireland is floundering under the expense of its bank bailout , but irish banks passed the eu-wide stress tests in july .
some now dismiss the tests as nothing more than a ' placebo ' for the market . when the eu-wide bank stress test results were made public in july , skepticism soon followed .
after all , just seven of 91 banks failed , leading some to believe the tests had been too easy .
none of ireland 's banks failed .
yet the country floundered under the sheer expense of bailing out and reforming its financial system .
in private , the chief financial officer of a european bank recently referred to the stress tests conducted over the past year as nothing more than a " placebo for the market . "
gerhard hofmann , a board member of the national association of german cooperative banks -lrb- bvr -rrb- , is skeptical about the accuracy of the tests .
he is n't aware of any cases in which they " actually had a high level of revelatory value , or a high level of predictive power in regards to future problem areas , " he told deutsche welle .
" what is put under stress today is most likely not tomorrow 's problem . "
first public results bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german financial regulator bafin carried out stress tests in germany according to benjamin fischer , a spokesman for german financial regulator bafin , three german banks were subjected to the first european union-wide stress tests in 2009 .
those results were not published .
the number then jumped to 15 in 2010 , although one bank was the subsidiary of an italian bank and was tested by that country 's financial regulator .
the results of these tests were published .
" it was a novelty that the results were made public , " fischer told deutsche welle .
" naturally , it made working on the stress tests more difficult because the attention was significantly more present . "
stress tests , according to fischer , are hypothetical instruments normally used in the banking industry .
" banks and regulators use stress tests as a kind of early-warning system to identify possible weaknesses ahead of time , " he said .
each eu nation carried out a test prescribed by the committee of european banking supervisors -lrb- cebs -rrb- .
while another stress test is likely in 2011 , it remains to be seen whether or not results will be made public .
a spokesman for cebs declined to comment .
according to the central bank of ireland , the irish stress tests were carried out with higher loan loss rates being applied than actually required by cebs .
still , ireland 's finances buckled and its debt rating plummeted as the country scrambled to save banks teetering on the edge of collapse .
ireland will now receive a bailout from the eu and the international monetary fund worth 85 billion euros -lrb- $ 112 billion -rrb- .
banks tested at status quo michael schroeder , an economist with the centre for european economic research in mannheim , said he does n't believe the irish crisis invalidates the cebs stress tests .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : patrick honohan 's central bank of ireland carried out the stress tests in ireland " the banks were tested at status quo ... and at that point they had already passed on some of their problems to the government , " he told deutsche welle .
each individual bank was placed under artificial stress , schroeder says , but a different picture , he argues , would likely emerge if the pressure were applied system-wide .
" the problem with the financial crisis was that many banks had similar portfolios and reacted similarly – in that they wanted to get rid of their portfolios , " he said .
" i do n't believe the tests depicted the crisis situation with complete accuracy . "
schroeder advocates a method of risk analysis called covar -lrb- conditional value at risk -rrb- , which is capable of simulating " how the portfolio of a bank reacts when there is a shock in all other banks . "
in other words , covar can be used to gain insight into chain reactions throughout a financial system .
it is gaining support throughout the financial world , according to schroeder .
in general , he believes , transparency in stress testing is a worthy objective .
" there was a lot of discussion about whether to publicize the results , " schroeder said .
" if the information is reliable and accurately represents specific problems then , yes , i would publicize it .
those who are active in the market and deal in stocks and investment on a large scale should know about it . "
market supplanted by european central bank one possible pitfall is that stress testing can backfire if publicized results turn out to be inaccurate .
bankers are currently fretting over whether ireland and other troubled eu countries will be able to fully repay government bonds .
to play it safe , they often turn to the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to deposit their assets and secure lines of credit .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future of the euro is linked with that of ireland fidel helmer of the hauck & aufhauser bank says industry-wide mistrust affects all players .
banks lend less among themselves , and the supply and demand for money is routed over the ecb instead of the open market .
" i think that deutsche bank , for instance , is under excellent leadership and will fetch excellent results , " he told deutsche welle .
nevertheless , the value of the bank 's stock took a nose dive this year .
that development is something helmer directly attributes to the cebs stress tests .
he said the tests were questionable and so far-reaching that they cast doubt even on healthy institutions .
author : gerhard schneibel / michael braun editor : john blau send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu divided over euro bonds , no increase in bailout funds there was no agreement on plans for joint euro bonds at a meeting of the eurozone finance ministers in brussels on monday , where the eurogroup decided against any increase in the rescue fund for debt-saddled countries .
-lrb- 06.12.2010 -rrb- euro is ' credible , ' not in crisis : trichet ecb president jean-claude trichet has moved to calm jittery financial markets by calling the euro ' credible ' and agreeing to continue the bank 's emergency bond-buying program to prop the struggling eurozone .
-lrb- 03.12.2010 -rrb- irish central bank chief expects ' substantial eu loan ' the head of ireland 's central bank has said the country will likely receive a multi-billion-euro loan to help save the country from financial meltdown .
this comes as an eu / imf mission is in dublin for emergency talks .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- ireland announces sweeping austerity measures to secure bailout the irish government has given details of its most stringent austerity plan ever , aimed at saving 15 billion euros over the next four years .
the cuts are necessary to secure a multi-billion-euro international bailout .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- ireland announces drastic budget cuts as eu bailout is officially approved european union finance ministers formally approved the 85-billion-euro rescue loan for crisis-stricken ireland on tuesday as the country announced the toughest domestic budget in its history .
-lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the irish government unveils a crisis budget -lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- eu leaders want ecb to buy government bonds -lrb- 02.12.2010 -rrb- feedback how much confidence do you have in the eu banking stress tests ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live kick off !
countdown we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet cycling 's all the rage listen live dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
export champion - surteco makes the furniture industry go round freedom of movement - working across eu borders real estate boom - more and more people are investing in berlin audi and the dtm , part 3 - big race , big business stock exchange today in history 1977 : judgment passed in stammheim © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press opinion : wikileaks ' latest release is a diplomatic waterloo africa -pipe- 13.12.2010 wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell gained information on all aspects of nigeria 's oil business the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria . leaked us diplomatic cables from last year , carried by a number of international newspapers and magazines , show that royal dutch shell - among the major oil producers in nigeria - have infiltrated key nigerian ministries and have been using links to us officials to gain information on rival oil companies in the country , and the movements and objectives of militants in the niger delta region .
shell 's level of penetration into the governmental structure of nigeria - one of the world 's largest oil exporters - have given the company access to politicians and decision-makers at the highest level , providing it with insider knowledge of all movements and negotiations within those ministries .
according to dr. heinz jockers , a nigeria expert and a member of the eu election observation mission to nigeria , shell has personnel in the finance , interior , national planning , defense , environment , energy and foreign affairs ministries as well as influence over a number of presidential advisers , parliamentarians , governors , and high-ranked tribal rulers .
high level infiltration in major ministeries and oil-producing states " shell operatives - although they are unofficially employed by the company - have infiltrated the majority of the most important ministries in the nigerian government , " jockers told deutsche welle .
" they will of course also have their people in the ministries of the main oil-producing states . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell used nigerian sources to help secure its interests jockers said that the main aim of the shell operatives would be to gain information on everything which could in one way or the other affect the company 's business .
" areas of interest for these people would be the position of other competitors , be it companies or countries ; their offers regarding oil deals in nigeria , the pricing scale for oil in the country , and the level of governmental support for security , " he said .
the leaked cables show that shell had obtained information that nigeria had invited bids for oil concessions from china and was concerned at the possibility of increased competition from the people 's republic .
they also show that shell executives requested confirmation from us officials on russian gas giant gazprom 's interest in nigeria after information was obtained from ministerial channels .
jockers added that the practice of infiltration was so widespread that it is highly likely that other large companies have embedded personnel in governmental offices as this was the only way that advantages in business could be gained in nigeria .
" these could include : julius berger , chevron , hochtief , siemens , peugeot , haliburton , and mercedes , " he said .
" you have to remember : nigeria is a chaotic and highly corrupt country .
to do business there , you have to play the game . "
shell contacted us officials over delta militant threat bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell wanted us help with getting information on militants ann pickard , shell 's top executive in nigeria , was also revealed to have spoken to us officials in 2008 about the threat of militants in the niger delta which had , at its peak in 2006 , shut down a quarter of nigeria 's oil output .
an amnesty in 2009 ended the acts of sabotage being carried out on vulnerable pipelines and platforms , such as shell 's soku gas facility which had been the target of militant rocket attacks at the height of the so-called oil war .
" shell had been the main target of attacks by militants since the early 1990s , " heinrich bergstresser , a nigeria expert at the german institute of global and area studies -lrb- giga -rrb- in hamburg , told deutsche welle .
" the sabotages and attacks on shell 's installations , among others , were and are executed not just by militants but also orchestrated by complicit agents within the oil companies .
they benefit from the attacks because these people are very often also in charge of managing the payment of compensation which offers the opportunity to keep certain amounts of the payment for themselves . "
the cable dispatches from 2008 showed that shell 's pickard had contacted the us consulate in lagos with an offer to share " intelligence " on militant activity in exchange for information on a shipment of surface-to-air missiles which had allegedly been destined for nigerian militant groups in the delta region .
cables hint at shell 's involvement with local godfathers the cables describe how pickard was also unconvinced that a certain governor in the delta region " lacked the connections among rivers state militant leaders to successfully coopt them as the governors in delta and bayelsa states have done with militants in their states , " and that she believed the clash between the military and militants was " a proxy war for ongoing disputes " between rival governors .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : playing both sides in the delta struggle is a dangerous game this section of the cable transcripts hints at the possibility that shell has been attempting to use its influence to control local leaders , a comlicated and dangerous practice according to heinrich bergstresser .
" shell is playing with fire if it has or had any connection with the governors and militants , " he said .
" on the one hand , the oil companies can not control the governors but on the other hand they can try to persuade them to act in favor of the companies and in their own interest .
i am sure that they are paying certain amounts to the governors but that does not guarantee anything . "
bergstresser added that very often the oil companies find themselves caught between a rock and a hard place .
" the militias have emancipated themselves from their political godfathers and have started their own business of attacks and kidnappings so the oil companies find themselves sandwiched between profit-making , being threatened by militias , and keeping very close relationships with the federal government . "
author : nick amies editor : rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de illegal arms shipments to nigeria raise stakes ahead of 2011 elections general elections in nigeria are still several months away , but tensions are rising with memories still fresh of the 2007 poll which saw widespread allegations of corruption , voter fraud and violence .
-lrb- 01.12.2010 -rrb- biafra war anniversary highlights nigeria ’ s uncertain future " biafra " was the taunt german children used for skinny kids in the late 60s - the term was synonymous with starvation .
it is now 40 years since the end of the biafra war , and nigeria 's future still hangs in the balance .
-lrb- 15.01.2010 -rrb- shell settles lawsuit over killing of nigerian activists european oil giant royal dutch shell has agreed to pay $ 15.5 million -lrb- 11.2 million euros -rrb- to the families of six nigerian activists executed in 1995 but has refused to accept any liability for the violence .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- feedback in your opinion , has shell done anything wrong by gaining influence in nigerian government ministeries ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
focus on libya libya 's uprising dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a london teen helps integrate autistic adults into society .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : online vigilantes have taken to their keyboards following the arrest in the netherlands of two teenagers involved in last week 's distributed denial of service attacks against mastercard , lawyers tell young hackers to be aware of the law . on saturday , a second dutch teenager , 19 , was arrested for having been part of a cyberattack that targeted the dutch public prosecutor 's website .
the prosecutor 's site became a target after the dutch prosecutor arrested another dutch teenager , 16 , who had joined an online " hacktivist " attack in the name of wikileaks .
this is just the latest in a series of attacks against perceived enemies of wikileaks largely by a group of its supporters , a shadowy online vigilante group that calls itself anonymous .
" any individual , organization , corporation , and / or government entity which supports freedom of speech and a free internet is an ally of anonymous , " the organization said on its website . " if you work to suppress freedom of expression and a free internet your efforts will be halted . "
the group is more like a semi-controlled herd rather than a traditional heirarchical organization - it does not have clear leadership or direction .
previously , it targeted the church of scientology and the website of the recording industry association of america .
but now that some have been caught for their alleged crimes , it may serve as a legal warning shot to those who feel that they can hide in this hacktivist huddle .
misused technology this time around , in response to the wikileaks case , anonymous followers have been using a computer application known as low orbit ion canon -lrb- loic -rrb- .
using this software , these hacktivists , managed to temporarily disable a number of major financial companý websites , including mastercard 's .
the software used in the attacks was originally designed to help protect websites by testing their penetrability , but when pointed at an unsuspecting site it has the reverse effect .
when used en masse , it is a crude but simple way to create a ddos , or distributed denial of service attack , which floods websites with high level of artificial traffic , making them temporarily slow or more often , unusable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wikileaks founder julian assange , has neither condoned nor condemned the denial of service attacks eddy willems , the spokesperson for tthe european expert group for it security told deutsche welle that there is n't much to the application , which he describes as a " pretty screen " with some buttons to press .
yet the flood module , which crafts packets to send to the target to deal with , can be quite debilitating .
" when you get enough people doing this , " he said , " something has to give .
in this case it 's the targets ' websites . "
the war is not over if anonymous is to be believed , they will keep on bringing these kinds of online attacks as long as there are enough wikileaks supporters on board to bring it about .
as far as they are concerned , it is a matter of principle .
but legal experts are now warning hot-blooded young activists to be aware of where their principle might land them , for to use loic to launch an attack is to misuse it , and that can have very serious consequences .
" users are putting themselves at risk , " willems continued .
" they are not real cyber criminals and they do n't realize that they could be sent to prison for this kind of thing . "
this is the same type of attack that was used against estonia in 2007 , although the estonian one did not involve the use of a software application , but rather through more organized botnets .
estonian government officials suspected that the russian government was somehow involved in attacking estonian financial and political websites , but in the end , only one estonian citizen was punished , who had to pay a relatively small fine .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mastercard was one of the hacktivists ' targets in some cases , finding users is not difficult as was the case of the 19-year-old dutch teenager who was arrested on saturday - as he had neglected to mask his ip address , making it relatively simple for law enforcement to find him .
depending on the protective measures users take , its perpetrators can be easily traced within the space of a day or even just a couple of hours , something which begs the question as to why anonymous has chosen the approach it has .
one suggestion is that the loic application is easy to come by and easy to use , while another is simply that hacktivists are naive .
risky business while the first dutch teenager was released , the younger boy remains in detention over what a spokesman for the dutch prosecutors described as potentially more serious violations .
some observers believe the two boys will be among a handful likely to be singled out and held up as a deterrent to more ddos attacks of this nature .
however , izaz ali , a british attorney specializing in internet law , told deutsche welle that in the case of britain there could be more wide-spread arrests .
" we 're talking here about the computer misuse act , " he said .
" the government will be forcing the police to look into this . "
using loic in a similar fashion may also violate similar statutes in germany and the netherlands .
damage limitation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future for blue-eyed hackers ?
contrary to some reports , ali says it is not illegal to download the software , as long as it is not used for anything other than it was originally intended .
" it is no different from using microsoft word to write something that causes damage to someone else , a computer virus for example . "
damage is the main issue here - if these attacks were simply a case of tit-for-tat that did not affect the possibility to legitimately use affected sites , the lawyer says it would be a different story .
in other words , ali advocates actual old-fashioned street protests to protest their cause in time-honored style .
" do it the old way , " he said , adding that these kinds of modern cyber attacks are harmful to people who might even share the same views .
" they see they are showing people that the leaks are a good thing , but they are going to cause problems for a lot of people , and this is a bad thing . "
reporter : tamsin walker editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- dutch police arrest hacker over alleged cyber attacks hackers have been waging cyber war on the websites of opponents of wikileaks , saying they 're fighting for a " free and open " internet .
dutch police have arrested a teenager accused of taking part in the attacks .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts contrary to oft-stated claims , the wikileaks cables show no huge credibility gap between official us policies and what diplomats write in confidential cables , say experts .
that doesn ’ t hold true for some other countries .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- australia offers support to wikileaks founder , operation payback begins canberra announced it will offer consular support to wikileaks founder julian assange who 's being held in britain .
meanwhile , hackers shut down the web sites of companies that cut business ties with wikileaks .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : online vigilantes have taken to their keyboards following the arrest in the netherlands of two teenagers involved in last week 's distributed denial of service attacks against mastercard , lawyers tell young hackers to be aware of the law . on saturday , a second dutch teenager , 19 , was arrested for having been part of a cyberattack that targeted the dutch public prosecutor 's website .
the prosecutor 's site became a target after the dutch prosecutor arrested another dutch teenager , 16 , who had joined an online " hacktivist " attack in the name of wikileaks .
this is just the latest in a series of attacks against perceived enemies of wikileaks largely by a group of its supporters , a shadowy online vigilante group that calls itself anonymous .
" any individual , organization , corporation , and / or government entity which supports freedom of speech and a free internet is an ally of anonymous , " the organization said on its website . " if you work to suppress freedom of expression and a free internet your efforts will be halted . "
the group is more like a semi-controlled herd rather than a traditional heirarchical organization - it does not have clear leadership or direction .
previously , it targeted the church of scientology and the website of the recording industry association of america .
but now that some have been caught for their alleged crimes , it may serve as a legal warning shot to those who feel that they can hide in this hacktivist huddle .
misused technology this time around , in response to the wikileaks case , anonymous followers have been using a computer application known as low orbit ion canon -lrb- loic -rrb- .
using this software , these hacktivists , managed to temporarily disable a number of major financial companý websites , including mastercard 's .
the software used in the attacks was originally designed to help protect websites by testing their penetrability , but when pointed at an unsuspecting site it has the reverse effect .
when used en masse , it is a crude but simple way to create a ddos , or distributed denial of service attack , which floods websites with high level of artificial traffic , making them temporarily slow or more often , unusable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wikileaks founder julian assange , has neither condoned nor condemned the denial of service attacks eddy willems , the spokesperson for tthe european expert group for it security told deutsche welle that there is n't much to the application , which he describes as a " pretty screen " with some buttons to press .
yet the flood module , which crafts packets to send to the target to deal with , can be quite debilitating .
" when you get enough people doing this , " he said , " something has to give .
in this case it 's the targets ' websites . "
the war is not over if anonymous is to be believed , they will keep on bringing these kinds of online attacks as long as there are enough wikileaks supporters on board to bring it about .
as far as they are concerned , it is a matter of principle .
but legal experts are now warning hot-blooded young activists to be aware of where their principle might land them , for to use loic to launch an attack is to misuse it , and that can have very serious consequences .
" users are putting themselves at risk , " willems continued .
" they are not real cyber criminals and they do n't realize that they could be sent to prison for this kind of thing . "
this is the same type of attack that was used against estonia in 2007 , although the estonian one did not involve the use of a software application , but rather through more organized botnets .
estonian government officials suspected that the russian government was somehow involved in attacking estonian financial and political websites , but in the end , only one estonian citizen was punished , who had to pay a relatively small fine .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mastercard was one of the hacktivists ' targets in some cases , finding users is not difficult as was the case of the 19-year-old dutch teenager who was arrested on saturday - as he had neglected to mask his ip address , making it relatively simple for law enforcement to find him .
depending on the protective measures users take , its perpetrators can be easily traced within the space of a day or even just a couple of hours , something which begs the question as to why anonymous has chosen the approach it has .
one suggestion is that the loic application is easy to come by and easy to use , while another is simply that hacktivists are naive .
risky business while the first dutch teenager was released , the younger boy remains in detention over what a spokesman for the dutch prosecutors described as potentially more serious violations .
some observers believe the two boys will be among a handful likely to be singled out and held up as a deterrent to more ddos attacks of this nature .
however , izaz ali , a british attorney specializing in internet law , told deutsche welle that in the case of britain there could be more wide-spread arrests .
" we 're talking here about the computer misuse act , " he said .
" the government will be forcing the police to look into this . "
using loic in a similar fashion may also violate similar statutes in germany and the netherlands .
damage limitation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future for blue-eyed hackers ?
contrary to some reports , ali says it is not illegal to download the software , as long as it is not used for anything other than it was originally intended .
" it is no different from using microsoft word to write something that causes damage to someone else , a computer virus for example . "
damage is the main issue here - if these attacks were simply a case of tit-for-tat that did not affect the possibility to legitimately use affected sites , the lawyer says it would be a different story .
in other words , ali advocates actual old-fashioned street protests to protest their cause in time-honored style .
" do it the old way , " he said , adding that these kinds of modern cyber attacks are harmful to people who might even share the same views .
" they see they are showing people that the leaks are a good thing , but they are going to cause problems for a lot of people , and this is a bad thing . "
reporter : tamsin walker editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- dutch police arrest hacker over alleged cyber attacks hackers have been waging cyber war on the websites of opponents of wikileaks , saying they 're fighting for a " free and open " internet .
dutch police have arrested a teenager accused of taking part in the attacks .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts contrary to oft-stated claims , the wikileaks cables show no huge credibility gap between official us policies and what diplomats write in confidential cables , say experts .
that doesn ’ t hold true for some other countries .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- australia offers support to wikileaks founder , operation payback begins canberra announced it will offer consular support to wikileaks founder julian assange who 's being held in britain .
meanwhile , hackers shut down the web sites of companies that cut business ties with wikileaks .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : online vigilantes have taken to their keyboards following the arrest in the netherlands of two teenagers involved in last week 's distributed denial of service attacks against mastercard , lawyers tell young hackers to be aware of the law . on saturday , a second dutch teenager , 19 , was arrested for having been part of a cyberattack that targeted the dutch public prosecutor 's website .
the prosecutor 's site became a target after the dutch prosecutor arrested another dutch teenager , 16 , who had joined an online " hacktivist " attack in the name of wikileaks .
this is just the latest in a series of attacks against perceived enemies of wikileaks largely by a group of its supporters , a shadowy online vigilante group that calls itself anonymous .
" any individual , organization , corporation , and / or government entity which supports freedom of speech and a free internet is an ally of anonymous , " the organization said on its website . " if you work to suppress freedom of expression and a free internet your efforts will be halted . "
the group is more like a semi-controlled herd rather than a traditional heirarchical organization - it does not have clear leadership or direction .
previously , it targeted the church of scientology and the website of the recording industry association of america .
but now that some have been caught for their alleged crimes , it may serve as a legal warning shot to those who feel that they can hide in this hacktivist huddle .
misused technology this time around , in response to the wikileaks case , anonymous followers have been using a computer application known as low orbit ion canon -lrb- loic -rrb- .
using this software , these hacktivists , managed to temporarily disable a number of major financial companý websites , including mastercard 's .
the software used in the attacks was originally designed to help protect websites by testing their penetrability , but when pointed at an unsuspecting site it has the reverse effect .
when used en masse , it is a crude but simple way to create a ddos , or distributed denial of service attack , which floods websites with high level of artificial traffic , making them temporarily slow or more often , unusable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wikileaks founder julian assange , has neither condoned nor condemned the denial of service attacks eddy willems , the spokesperson for tthe european expert group for it security told deutsche welle that there is n't much to the application , which he describes as a " pretty screen " with some buttons to press .
yet the flood module , which crafts packets to send to the target to deal with , can be quite debilitating .
" when you get enough people doing this , " he said , " something has to give .
in this case it 's the targets ' websites . "
the war is not over if anonymous is to be believed , they will keep on bringing these kinds of online attacks as long as there are enough wikileaks supporters on board to bring it about .
as far as they are concerned , it is a matter of principle .
but legal experts are now warning hot-blooded young activists to be aware of where their principle might land them , for to use loic to launch an attack is to misuse it , and that can have very serious consequences .
" users are putting themselves at risk , " willems continued .
" they are not real cyber criminals and they do n't realize that they could be sent to prison for this kind of thing . "
this is the same type of attack that was used against estonia in 2007 , although the estonian one did not involve the use of a software application , but rather through more organized botnets .
estonian government officials suspected that the russian government was somehow involved in attacking estonian financial and political websites , but in the end , only one estonian citizen was punished , who had to pay a relatively small fine .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mastercard was one of the hacktivists ' targets in some cases , finding users is not difficult as was the case of the 19-year-old dutch teenager who was arrested on saturday - as he had neglected to mask his ip address , making it relatively simple for law enforcement to find him .
depending on the protective measures users take , its perpetrators can be easily traced within the space of a day or even just a couple of hours , something which begs the question as to why anonymous has chosen the approach it has .
one suggestion is that the loic application is easy to come by and easy to use , while another is simply that hacktivists are naive .
risky business while the first dutch teenager was released , the younger boy remains in detention over what a spokesman for the dutch prosecutors described as potentially more serious violations .
some observers believe the two boys will be among a handful likely to be singled out and held up as a deterrent to more ddos attacks of this nature .
however , izaz ali , a british attorney specializing in internet law , told deutsche welle that in the case of britain there could be more wide-spread arrests .
" we 're talking here about the computer misuse act , " he said .
" the government will be forcing the police to look into this . "
using loic in a similar fashion may also violate similar statutes in germany and the netherlands .
damage limitation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future for blue-eyed hackers ?
contrary to some reports , ali says it is not illegal to download the software , as long as it is not used for anything other than it was originally intended .
" it is no different from using microsoft word to write something that causes damage to someone else , a computer virus for example . "
damage is the main issue here - if these attacks were simply a case of tit-for-tat that did not affect the possibility to legitimately use affected sites , the lawyer says it would be a different story .
in other words , ali advocates actual old-fashioned street protests to protest their cause in time-honored style .
" do it the old way , " he said , adding that these kinds of modern cyber attacks are harmful to people who might even share the same views .
" they see they are showing people that the leaks are a good thing , but they are going to cause problems for a lot of people , and this is a bad thing . "
reporter : tamsin walker editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- dutch police arrest hacker over alleged cyber attacks hackers have been waging cyber war on the websites of opponents of wikileaks , saying they 're fighting for a " free and open " internet .
dutch police have arrested a teenager accused of taking part in the attacks .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts contrary to oft-stated claims , the wikileaks cables show no huge credibility gap between official us policies and what diplomats write in confidential cables , say experts .
that doesn ’ t hold true for some other countries .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- australia offers support to wikileaks founder , operation payback begins canberra announced it will offer consular support to wikileaks founder julian assange who 's being held in britain .
meanwhile , hackers shut down the web sites of companies that cut business ties with wikileaks .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- feedback what should happen to those who perpetrate denial of service attacks ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : online vigilantes have taken to their keyboards following the arrest in the netherlands of two teenagers involved in last week 's distributed denial of service attacks against mastercard , lawyers tell young hackers to be aware of the law . on saturday , a second dutch teenager , 19 , was arrested for having been part of a cyberattack that targeted the dutch public prosecutor 's website .
the prosecutor 's site became a target after the dutch prosecutor arrested another dutch teenager , 16 , who had joined an online " hacktivist " attack in the name of wikileaks .
this is just the latest in a series of attacks against perceived enemies of wikileaks largely by a group of its supporters , a shadowy online vigilante group that calls itself anonymous .
" any individual , organization , corporation , and / or government entity which supports freedom of speech and a free internet is an ally of anonymous , " the organization said on its website . " if you work to suppress freedom of expression and a free internet your efforts will be halted . "
the group is more like a semi-controlled herd rather than a traditional heirarchical organization - it does not have clear leadership or direction .
previously , it targeted the church of scientology and the website of the recording industry association of america .
but now that some have been caught for their alleged crimes , it may serve as a legal warning shot to those who feel that they can hide in this hacktivist huddle .
misused technology this time around , in response to the wikileaks case , anonymous followers have been using a computer application known as low orbit ion canon -lrb- loic -rrb- .
using this software , these hacktivists , managed to temporarily disable a number of major financial companý websites , including mastercard 's .
the software used in the attacks was originally designed to help protect websites by testing their penetrability , but when pointed at an unsuspecting site it has the reverse effect .
when used en masse , it is a crude but simple way to create a ddos , or distributed denial of service attack , which floods websites with high level of artificial traffic , making them temporarily slow or more often , unusable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wikileaks founder julian assange , has neither condoned nor condemned the denial of service attacks eddy willems , the spokesperson for tthe european expert group for it security told deutsche welle that there is n't much to the application , which he describes as a " pretty screen " with some buttons to press .
yet the flood module , which crafts packets to send to the target to deal with , can be quite debilitating .
" when you get enough people doing this , " he said , " something has to give .
in this case it 's the targets ' websites . "
the war is not over if anonymous is to be believed , they will keep on bringing these kinds of online attacks as long as there are enough wikileaks supporters on board to bring it about .
as far as they are concerned , it is a matter of principle .
but legal experts are now warning hot-blooded young activists to be aware of where their principle might land them , for to use loic to launch an attack is to misuse it , and that can have very serious consequences .
" users are putting themselves at risk , " willems continued .
" they are not real cyber criminals and they do n't realize that they could be sent to prison for this kind of thing . "
this is the same type of attack that was used against estonia in 2007 , although the estonian one did not involve the use of a software application , but rather through more organized botnets .
estonian government officials suspected that the russian government was somehow involved in attacking estonian financial and political websites , but in the end , only one estonian citizen was punished , who had to pay a relatively small fine .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mastercard was one of the hacktivists ' targets in some cases , finding users is not difficult as was the case of the 19-year-old dutch teenager who was arrested on saturday - as he had neglected to mask his ip address , making it relatively simple for law enforcement to find him .
depending on the protective measures users take , its perpetrators can be easily traced within the space of a day or even just a couple of hours , something which begs the question as to why anonymous has chosen the approach it has .
one suggestion is that the loic application is easy to come by and easy to use , while another is simply that hacktivists are naive .
risky business while the first dutch teenager was released , the younger boy remains in detention over what a spokesman for the dutch prosecutors described as potentially more serious violations .
some observers believe the two boys will be among a handful likely to be singled out and held up as a deterrent to more ddos attacks of this nature .
however , izaz ali , a british attorney specializing in internet law , told deutsche welle that in the case of britain there could be more wide-spread arrests .
" we 're talking here about the computer misuse act , " he said .
" the government will be forcing the police to look into this . "
using loic in a similar fashion may also violate similar statutes in germany and the netherlands .
damage limitation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future for blue-eyed hackers ?
contrary to some reports , ali says it is not illegal to download the software , as long as it is not used for anything other than it was originally intended .
" it is no different from using microsoft word to write something that causes damage to someone else , a computer virus for example . "
damage is the main issue here - if these attacks were simply a case of tit-for-tat that did not affect the possibility to legitimately use affected sites , the lawyer says it would be a different story .
in other words , ali advocates actual old-fashioned street protests to protest their cause in time-honored style .
" do it the old way , " he said , adding that these kinds of modern cyber attacks are harmful to people who might even share the same views .
" they see they are showing people that the leaks are a good thing , but they are going to cause problems for a lot of people , and this is a bad thing . "
reporter : tamsin walker editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- dutch police arrest hacker over alleged cyber attacks hackers have been waging cyber war on the websites of opponents of wikileaks , saying they 're fighting for a " free and open " internet .
dutch police have arrested a teenager accused of taking part in the attacks .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts contrary to oft-stated claims , the wikileaks cables show no huge credibility gap between official us policies and what diplomats write in confidential cables , say experts .
that doesn ’ t hold true for some other countries .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- australia offers support to wikileaks founder , operation payback begins canberra announced it will offer consular support to wikileaks founder julian assange who 's being held in britain .
meanwhile , hackers shut down the web sites of companies that cut business ties with wikileaks .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- feedback what should happen to those who perpetrate denial of service attacks ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : online vigilantes have taken to their keyboards following the arrest in the netherlands of two teenagers involved in last week 's distributed denial of service attacks against mastercard , lawyers tell young hackers to be aware of the law . on saturday , a second dutch teenager , 19 , was arrested for having been part of a cyberattack that targeted the dutch public prosecutor 's website .
the prosecutor 's site became a target after the dutch prosecutor arrested another dutch teenager , 16 , who had joined an online " hacktivist " attack in the name of wikileaks .
this is just the latest in a series of attacks against perceived enemies of wikileaks largely by a group of its supporters , a shadowy online vigilante group that calls itself anonymous .
" any individual , organization , corporation , and / or government entity which supports freedom of speech and a free internet is an ally of anonymous , " the organization said on its website . " if you work to suppress freedom of expression and a free internet your efforts will be halted . "
the group is more like a semi-controlled herd rather than a traditional heirarchical organization - it does not have clear leadership or direction .
previously , it targeted the church of scientology and the website of the recording industry association of america .
but now that some have been caught for their alleged crimes , it may serve as a legal warning shot to those who feel that they can hide in this hacktivist huddle .
misused technology this time around , in response to the wikileaks case , anonymous followers have been using a computer application known as low orbit ion canon -lrb- loic -rrb- .
using this software , these hacktivists , managed to temporarily disable a number of major financial companý websites , including mastercard 's .
the software used in the attacks was originally designed to help protect websites by testing their penetrability , but when pointed at an unsuspecting site it has the reverse effect .
when used en masse , it is a crude but simple way to create a ddos , or distributed denial of service attack , which floods websites with high level of artificial traffic , making them temporarily slow or more often , unusable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wikileaks founder julian assange , has neither condoned nor condemned the denial of service attacks eddy willems , the spokesperson for tthe european expert group for it security told deutsche welle that there is n't much to the application , which he describes as a " pretty screen " with some buttons to press .
yet the flood module , which crafts packets to send to the target to deal with , can be quite debilitating .
" when you get enough people doing this , " he said , " something has to give .
in this case it 's the targets ' websites . "
the war is not over if anonymous is to be believed , they will keep on bringing these kinds of online attacks as long as there are enough wikileaks supporters on board to bring it about .
as far as they are concerned , it is a matter of principle .
but legal experts are now warning hot-blooded young activists to be aware of where their principle might land them , for to use loic to launch an attack is to misuse it , and that can have very serious consequences .
" users are putting themselves at risk , " willems continued .
" they are not real cyber criminals and they do n't realize that they could be sent to prison for this kind of thing . "
this is the same type of attack that was used against estonia in 2007 , although the estonian one did not involve the use of a software application , but rather through more organized botnets .
estonian government officials suspected that the russian government was somehow involved in attacking estonian financial and political websites , but in the end , only one estonian citizen was punished , who had to pay a relatively small fine .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mastercard was one of the hacktivists ' targets in some cases , finding users is not difficult as was the case of the 19-year-old dutch teenager who was arrested on saturday - as he had neglected to mask his ip address , making it relatively simple for law enforcement to find him .
depending on the protective measures users take , its perpetrators can be easily traced within the space of a day or even just a couple of hours , something which begs the question as to why anonymous has chosen the approach it has .
one suggestion is that the loic application is easy to come by and easy to use , while another is simply that hacktivists are naive .
risky business while the first dutch teenager was released , the younger boy remains in detention over what a spokesman for the dutch prosecutors described as potentially more serious violations .
some observers believe the two boys will be among a handful likely to be singled out and held up as a deterrent to more ddos attacks of this nature .
however , izaz ali , a british attorney specializing in internet law , told deutsche welle that in the case of britain there could be more wide-spread arrests .
" we 're talking here about the computer misuse act , " he said .
" the government will be forcing the police to look into this . "
using loic in a similar fashion may also violate similar statutes in germany and the netherlands .
damage limitation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future for blue-eyed hackers ?
contrary to some reports , ali says it is not illegal to download the software , as long as it is not used for anything other than it was originally intended .
" it is no different from using microsoft word to write something that causes damage to someone else , a computer virus for example . "
damage is the main issue here - if these attacks were simply a case of tit-for-tat that did not affect the possibility to legitimately use affected sites , the lawyer says it would be a different story .
in other words , ali advocates actual old-fashioned street protests to protest their cause in time-honored style .
" do it the old way , " he said , adding that these kinds of modern cyber attacks are harmful to people who might even share the same views .
" they see they are showing people that the leaks are a good thing , but they are going to cause problems for a lot of people , and this is a bad thing . "
reporter : tamsin walker editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- dutch police arrest hacker over alleged cyber attacks hackers have been waging cyber war on the websites of opponents of wikileaks , saying they 're fighting for a " free and open " internet .
dutch police have arrested a teenager accused of taking part in the attacks .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts contrary to oft-stated claims , the wikileaks cables show no huge credibility gap between official us policies and what diplomats write in confidential cables , say experts .
that doesn ’ t hold true for some other countries .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- australia offers support to wikileaks founder , operation payback begins canberra announced it will offer consular support to wikileaks founder julian assange who 's being held in britain .
meanwhile , hackers shut down the web sites of companies that cut business ties with wikileaks .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- feedback what should happen to those who perpetrate denial of service attacks ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards voting is underway at the bobs - deutsche welle 's annual blog contest .
cast your ballot social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
victims of abuse in children 's homes ' betrayed ' by compensation proposal -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 13.12.2010 victims of abuse in children 's homes ' betrayed ' by compensation proposal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many victims feel betrayed by the round table 's results a panel called to investigate the systematic maltreatment of thousands of juveniles in children 's homes in the 1950s and 1960s has recommended the payment of compensation .
but many victims feel betrayed . an extra-parliamentary panel in berlin on monday presented the results of two years of round-table negotiations on how to compensate tens of thousands of former children and youths for the systematic wrongdoings they had to endure at the hands of educators in west germany 's children 's homes in the 1950s and 1960s .
the panel recommended that victims who suffered torture , maltreatment and humiliation receive compensation from a 120-million-euro -lrb- $ 160 million -rrb- fund financed by the german government , federal states and churches .
the payments are to be used for pension funds , for treatment of subsequent damages or as rent assistance .
" children in children 's homes were never able to argue for their rights by themselves , " said antje vollmer , head of the round-table group of politicians , church representatives and victims .
" this is why they are still entitled to financial compensation . " the german parliament bundestag and the federal states ' parliaments have yet to decide on the round table 's proposals , but georg gorissen , the representative of the federal government and the western german federal states , said they were in favor of the compensation funds .
the catholic and the protestant church announced they would pay their share of the funds .
30,000 could make use of the funds twenty million euros are planned for pension payments since a lot of children had to start working at the age of 14 , but the children 's homes declined to pay into their pension funds .
another 100 million euros should go towards the treating the consequences of the abuse .
according to recent investigations , about 30,000 people are eligible for compensation .
so far , around 2,500 former victims have come forward .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " we did n't achieve all our goals , but we did achieve a lot , " said wiegand hans-siegfried wiegand , one of the more prominent victims participating in the round table negotiations , said that not all demands had been met .
victims groups had been aiming for a monthly lump-sum payment of 300 euros or a single payment of around 50,000 euros .
" we did n't achieve all of our goals , but we did achieve a lot , " wiegand said .
compensation is a " farce " the chairwoman of the association of former children 's homes residents , monika tschapek-guentner called the compensation funds a " farce " and dismissed case-to-case examinations .
tschapek-guentner is still demanding lump-sum payments to all victims .
the 120-million-euro fund is an " outrage , " amounting to between just 2,000-4,000 euros for each victim .
" that is really humiliating , " she said .
" that 's an attempt to drop the issue with minimum compensation . "
the association advised victims to claim money from the funds .
but tschapek-guentner is planning to take the case further .
" i will go as far as the european court of justice , " she said .
another member of the round-table , juergen beverfoerden , added that victims had been under a lot of pressure at the talks .
" there was the threat that we wo n't get anything if we do n't agree to the final report , " he said .
antje vollmer rebuffed the accusations . justice minister sabine leutheusser-schnarrenberger said that " earmarked funds are an appropriate reaction to individual injustice , " but said she also understood that expectations of victims might have been higher .
the head of the catholic church in germany , robert zollitsch and his protestant counterpart , nikolaus schneider , both advocated a quick and unbureaucratic establishment of the fund .
up to 800,000 children lived in german children 's homes between 1949 and 1975 , run by the government as well as by churches .
author : sarah steffen -lrb- epd , ap , kna , afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany launches campaign for sexual abuse victims to speak out in response to the child abuse scandal in the catholic church , thousands of german victims are being targeted by a new campaign that aims to end their silent suffering .
the message is that talking helps .
-lrb- 21.09.2010 -rrb- cases of sex abuse emerge from former east germany following the scandals of child sex abuse in the roman catholic church and private schools in western germany , new revelations have now emerged about abuse in former communist east germany .
-lrb- 01.04.2010 -rrb- germany urges catholic church to come clean on child abuse the german government has called on the catholic church to play a proactive role in clarifying the widening allegations of clerical sex abuse at catholic schools throughout the country .
-lrb- 21.02.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ' too little , too late ' -lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- victims of abuse set to receive compensation -lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live people and politics - the political magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week savings , hackers and house prices listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
victims of abuse in children 's homes ' betrayed ' by compensation proposal -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 13.12.2010 victims of abuse in children 's homes ' betrayed ' by compensation proposal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many victims feel betrayed by the round table 's results a panel called to investigate the systematic maltreatment of thousands of juveniles in children 's homes in the 1950s and 1960s has recommended the payment of compensation .
but many victims feel betrayed . an extra-parliamentary panel in berlin on monday presented the results of two years of round-table negotiations on how to compensate tens of thousands of former children and youths for the systematic wrongdoings they had to endure at the hands of educators in west germany 's children 's homes in the 1950s and 1960s .
the panel recommended that victims who suffered torture , maltreatment and humiliation receive compensation from a 120-million-euro -lrb- $ 160 million -rrb- fund financed by the german government , federal states and churches .
the payments are to be used for pension funds , for treatment of subsequent damages or as rent assistance .
" children in children 's homes were never able to argue for their rights by themselves , " said antje vollmer , head of the round-table group of politicians , church representatives and victims .
" this is why they are still entitled to financial compensation . " the german parliament bundestag and the federal states ' parliaments have yet to decide on the round table 's proposals , but georg gorissen , the representative of the federal government and the western german federal states , said they were in favor of the compensation funds .
the catholic and the protestant church announced they would pay their share of the funds .
30,000 could make use of the funds twenty million euros are planned for pension payments since a lot of children had to start working at the age of 14 , but the children 's homes declined to pay into their pension funds .
another 100 million euros should go towards the treating the consequences of the abuse .
according to recent investigations , about 30,000 people are eligible for compensation .
so far , around 2,500 former victims have come forward .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " we did n't achieve all our goals , but we did achieve a lot , " said wiegand hans-siegfried wiegand , one of the more prominent victims participating in the round table negotiations , said that not all demands had been met .
victims groups had been aiming for a monthly lump-sum payment of 300 euros or a single payment of around 50,000 euros .
" we did n't achieve all of our goals , but we did achieve a lot , " wiegand said .
compensation is a " farce " the chairwoman of the association of former children 's homes residents , monika tschapek-guentner called the compensation funds a " farce " and dismissed case-to-case examinations .
tschapek-guentner is still demanding lump-sum payments to all victims .
the 120-million-euro fund is an " outrage , " amounting to between just 2,000-4,000 euros for each victim .
" that is really humiliating , " she said .
" that 's an attempt to drop the issue with minimum compensation . "
the association advised victims to claim money from the funds .
but tschapek-guentner is planning to take the case further .
" i will go as far as the european court of justice , " she said .
another member of the round-table , juergen beverfoerden , added that victims had been under a lot of pressure at the talks .
" there was the threat that we wo n't get anything if we do n't agree to the final report , " he said .
antje vollmer rebuffed the accusations . justice minister sabine leutheusser-schnarrenberger said that " earmarked funds are an appropriate reaction to individual injustice , " but said she also understood that expectations of victims might have been higher .
the head of the catholic church in germany , robert zollitsch and his protestant counterpart , nikolaus schneider , both advocated a quick and unbureaucratic establishment of the fund .
up to 800,000 children lived in german children 's homes between 1949 and 1975 , run by the government as well as by churches .
author : sarah steffen -lrb- epd , ap , kna , afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany launches campaign for sexual abuse victims to speak out in response to the child abuse scandal in the catholic church , thousands of german victims are being targeted by a new campaign that aims to end their silent suffering .
the message is that talking helps .
-lrb- 21.09.2010 -rrb- cases of sex abuse emerge from former east germany following the scandals of child sex abuse in the roman catholic church and private schools in western germany , new revelations have now emerged about abuse in former communist east germany .
-lrb- 01.04.2010 -rrb- germany urges catholic church to come clean on child abuse the german government has called on the catholic church to play a proactive role in clarifying the widening allegations of clerical sex abuse at catholic schools throughout the country .
-lrb- 21.02.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ' too little , too late ' -lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- victims of abuse set to receive compensation -lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit die woche we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
victims of abuse in children 's homes ' betrayed ' by compensation proposal -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.03.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 13.12.2010 victims of abuse in children 's homes ' betrayed ' by compensation proposal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many victims feel betrayed by the round table 's results a panel called to investigate the systematic maltreatment of thousands of juveniles in children 's homes in the 1950s and 1960s has recommended the payment of compensation .
but many victims feel betrayed . an extra-parliamentary panel in berlin on monday presented the results of two years of round-table negotiations on how to compensate tens of thousands of former children and youths for the systematic wrongdoings they had to endure at the hands of educators in west germany 's children 's homes in the 1950s and 1960s .
the panel recommended that victims who suffered torture , maltreatment and humiliation receive compensation from a 120-million-euro -lrb- $ 160 million -rrb- fund financed by the german government , federal states and churches .
the payments are to be used for pension funds , for treatment of subsequent damages or as rent assistance .
" children in children 's homes were never able to argue for their rights by themselves , " said antje vollmer , head of the round-table group of politicians , church representatives and victims .
" this is why they are still entitled to financial compensation . " the german parliament bundestag and the federal states ' parliaments have yet to decide on the round table 's proposals , but georg gorissen , the representative of the federal government and the western german federal states , said they were in favor of the compensation funds .
the catholic and the protestant church announced they would pay their share of the funds .
30,000 could make use of the funds twenty million euros are planned for pension payments since a lot of children had to start working at the age of 14 , but the children 's homes declined to pay into their pension funds .
another 100 million euros should go towards the treating the consequences of the abuse .
according to recent investigations , about 30,000 people are eligible for compensation .
so far , around 2,500 former victims have come forward .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " we did n't achieve all our goals , but we did achieve a lot , " said wiegand hans-siegfried wiegand , one of the more prominent victims participating in the round table negotiations , said that not all demands had been met .
victims groups had been aiming for a monthly lump-sum payment of 300 euros or a single payment of around 50,000 euros .
" we did n't achieve all of our goals , but we did achieve a lot , " wiegand said .
compensation is a " farce " the chairwoman of the association of former children 's homes residents , monika tschapek-guentner called the compensation funds a " farce " and dismissed case-to-case examinations .
tschapek-guentner is still demanding lump-sum payments to all victims .
the 120-million-euro fund is an " outrage , " amounting to between just 2,000-4,000 euros for each victim .
" that is really humiliating , " she said .
" that 's an attempt to drop the issue with minimum compensation . "
the association advised victims to claim money from the funds .
but tschapek-guentner is planning to take the case further .
" i will go as far as the european court of justice , " she said .
another member of the round-table , juergen beverfoerden , added that victims had been under a lot of pressure at the talks .
" there was the threat that we wo n't get anything if we do n't agree to the final report , " he said .
antje vollmer rebuffed the accusations . justice minister sabine leutheusser-schnarrenberger said that " earmarked funds are an appropriate reaction to individual injustice , " but said she also understood that expectations of victims might have been higher .
the head of the catholic church in germany , robert zollitsch and his protestant counterpart , nikolaus schneider , both advocated a quick and unbureaucratic establishment of the fund .
up to 800,000 children lived in german children 's homes between 1949 and 1975 , run by the government as well as by churches .
author : sarah steffen -lrb- epd , ap , kna , afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany launches campaign for sexual abuse victims to speak out in response to the child abuse scandal in the catholic church , thousands of german victims are being targeted by a new campaign that aims to end their silent suffering .
the message is that talking helps .
-lrb- 21.09.2010 -rrb- cases of sex abuse emerge from former east germany following the scandals of child sex abuse in the roman catholic church and private schools in western germany , new revelations have now emerged about abuse in former communist east germany .
-lrb- 01.04.2010 -rrb- germany urges catholic church to come clean on child abuse the german government has called on the catholic church to play a proactive role in clarifying the widening allegations of clerical sex abuse at catholic schools throughout the country .
-lrb- 21.02.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ' too little , too late ' -lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- victims of abuse set to receive compensation -lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- feedback how much compensation should victims receive ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
victims of abuse in children 's homes ' betrayed ' by compensation proposal -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 13.12.2010 victims of abuse in children 's homes ' betrayed ' by compensation proposal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many victims feel betrayed by the round table 's results a panel called to investigate the systematic maltreatment of thousands of juveniles in children 's homes in the 1950s and 1960s has recommended the payment of compensation .
but many victims feel betrayed . an extra-parliamentary panel in berlin on monday presented the results of two years of round-table negotiations on how to compensate tens of thousands of former children and youths for the systematic wrongdoings they had to endure at the hands of educators in west germany 's children 's homes in the 1950s and 1960s .
the panel recommended that victims who suffered torture , maltreatment and humiliation receive compensation from a 120-million-euro -lrb- $ 160 million -rrb- fund financed by the german government , federal states and churches .
the payments are to be used for pension funds , for treatment of subsequent damages or as rent assistance .
" children in children 's homes were never able to argue for their rights by themselves , " said antje vollmer , head of the round-table group of politicians , church representatives and victims .
" this is why they are still entitled to financial compensation . " the german parliament bundestag and the federal states ' parliaments have yet to decide on the round table 's proposals , but georg gorissen , the representative of the federal government and the western german federal states , said they were in favor of the compensation funds .
the catholic and the protestant church announced they would pay their share of the funds .
30,000 could make use of the funds twenty million euros are planned for pension payments since a lot of children had to start working at the age of 14 , but the children 's homes declined to pay into their pension funds .
another 100 million euros should go towards the treating the consequences of the abuse .
according to recent investigations , about 30,000 people are eligible for compensation .
so far , around 2,500 former victims have come forward .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " we did n't achieve all our goals , but we did achieve a lot , " said wiegand hans-siegfried wiegand , one of the more prominent victims participating in the round table negotiations , said that not all demands had been met .
victims groups had been aiming for a monthly lump-sum payment of 300 euros or a single payment of around 50,000 euros .
" we did n't achieve all of our goals , but we did achieve a lot , " wiegand said .
compensation is a " farce " the chairwoman of the association of former children 's homes residents , monika tschapek-guentner called the compensation funds a " farce " and dismissed case-to-case examinations .
tschapek-guentner is still demanding lump-sum payments to all victims .
the 120-million-euro fund is an " outrage , " amounting to between just 2,000-4,000 euros for each victim .
" that is really humiliating , " she said .
" that 's an attempt to drop the issue with minimum compensation . "
the association advised victims to claim money from the funds .
but tschapek-guentner is planning to take the case further .
" i will go as far as the european court of justice , " she said .
another member of the round-table , juergen beverfoerden , added that victims had been under a lot of pressure at the talks .
" there was the threat that we wo n't get anything if we do n't agree to the final report , " he said .
antje vollmer rebuffed the accusations . justice minister sabine leutheusser-schnarrenberger said that " earmarked funds are an appropriate reaction to individual injustice , " but said she also understood that expectations of victims might have been higher .
the head of the catholic church in germany , robert zollitsch and his protestant counterpart , nikolaus schneider , both advocated a quick and unbureaucratic establishment of the fund .
up to 800,000 children lived in german children 's homes between 1949 and 1975 , run by the government as well as by churches .
author : sarah steffen -lrb- epd , ap , kna , afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany launches campaign for sexual abuse victims to speak out in response to the child abuse scandal in the catholic church , thousands of german victims are being targeted by a new campaign that aims to end their silent suffering .
the message is that talking helps .
-lrb- 21.09.2010 -rrb- cases of sex abuse emerge from former east germany following the scandals of child sex abuse in the roman catholic church and private schools in western germany , new revelations have now emerged about abuse in former communist east germany .
-lrb- 01.04.2010 -rrb- germany urges catholic church to come clean on child abuse the german government has called on the catholic church to play a proactive role in clarifying the widening allegations of clerical sex abuse at catholic schools throughout the country .
-lrb- 21.02.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ' too little , too late ' -lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- victims of abuse set to receive compensation -lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- feedback how much compensation should victims receive ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new red shirt leader eyes the path of peace -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 20.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 13.12.2010 new red shirt leader eyes the path of peace großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thida thavornseth , center with microphone , at a rally in bangkok last friday in thailand , efforts are continuing to overcome the social and political divisions highlighted by massive anti-government protests earlier this year .
the red shirts have a new leader , thida thavornseth . seven months after the thai military used force to end anti-government protests in central bangkok ’ s commercial district of rajprasong , thousands attended an open-air concert there .
it featured a new symphony by thai composer somtow sucharitkul , played by a 150-member orchestra and choir .
the performance marked a further step to overcome deep rifts within thai society .
somtow , who wrote the symphony to honor thai king bhumipol adulyadej , said achieving reconciliation remains a challenge .
" there is an enormous amount of anger , and the whole concept of winning and losing and coming back is not deeply engrained in our culture " , somtow told deutsche welle .
" this is a culture that in the past has been really driven by the idea of vengeance in many ways , and this is something that we have to overcome .
i feel that if i can ’ t do it with words , perhaps i can do it with music . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thai soldiers suppressed red shirt protests with force in may the clashes between protesters and security forces for more than two months left 91 people dead and almost 2,000 injured .
the protests were led by the so-called red shirts , largely supporting former prime minister thaksin shinawatra .
after a coup ousted thaksin in 2006 , two more pro-thaksin governments were forced to stand down by court decisions .
red shirts in disarray but after the army clampdown in spring , the red shirt movement has been in disarray .
many of its leaders were arrested or fled the country .
the new acting chairwoman thida thavornseth is no stranger to thai politics .
her husband , weng tojirakarn is in jail along with other red shirt leaders .
thida said she took up the leadership amid fears that hard-line elements were planning to take over .
" we have to find a leader to lead people in the right way , and we want to keep the movement peaceful , " she said . " otherwise the democracy movement – our democracy movement – may be destroyed , as some people want to destroy the peaceful movement . "
thailand remains deeply divided .
many among the rural poor and the urban working class continue to support thaksin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thailand 's prime minister abhisit vejjajiva preparing for next year 's elections the government , led by prime minister abhisit vejjajiva ’ s democrat party , has launched investigations into the bloodshed along with a truth for reconciliation commission .
but progress has been mixed , and thida is skeptical .
" the first thing you have to find is the truth , and justice for the people .
only then you can move on towards reconciliation . "
chris baker , an author and commentator on thai politics , said the red shirts ' main focus will be to support the pro-thaksin puea thai party ahead of the general elections . " they are very much concentrated on when the next election will be and how that will be managed .
then there ’ s a lot of pushing and shoving , so it ’ s far from simple , " said baker .
" so that ’ s what people are concentrating on , not court cases and reconciliation commissions . "
on the weekend , by-election victories for the democrat party and its coalition partner provided a short-term boost for the government .
author : ron corben -lrb- bangkok -rrb- editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de press freedom in thailand is on the wane according to this year 's reporters without borders press freedom index , thailand is down from place 130 in 2009 to 153 out of 178 nations .
the government has been using an emergency decree to target opposition media .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- tensions between cambodia and thailand over red shirts cambodia has strongly denied accusations from thailand that anti-government red shirt protesters were trained at a cambodian military base in a plot to assassinate top thai leaders .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- thailand 's new army chief takes office general prayuth chan-ocha replaces anupong paochinda at a time when thailand remains divided into two political camps .
-lrb- 01.10.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china exploding watermelons some beijing housewives grow vegetables at home because they do n't trust the market .
nuclear health scare a health scare hits japan as radioactive beef finds its way into supermarkets across the country .
dw-tv europe live drive it ! - the motor magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for iran nuclear talks to continue despite minister firing -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 13.12.2010 germany calls for iran nuclear talks to continue despite minister firing großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran has only just resumed nuclear talks with the 5 + 1 group iran 's foreign minister has been dismissed by president mahmoud ahmadinejad shortly after the country resumed talks with the west over its nuclear program , leading germany to urge iran to continue in the talks . german foreign minister guido westerwelle called on iran to continue negotiations with world powers over its contentious nuclear activities despite the firing of his iranian counterpart on monday .
" we trust that the talks that have just begun in geneva will continue and that different political line-ups will not lead to an interruption or a hesitation at those talks , " westerwelle said ahead of a regular eu foreign ministers meeting in brussels .
germany and the five permanent members of the united nations security council resumed talks with iran in the swiss city last week after a 14-month hiatus .
the so-called 5 + 1 group and iran agreed to meet again in istanbul in january .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mottaki was not part of iran 's negotiating team in geneva iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad dismissed his foreign minister manouchehr mottaki , a career diplomat in the office since august 2005 .
the iranian government offered no public explanation of the firing .
while mottaki has been staunch defender of iran 's nuclear program and ahmadinejad , the two men reportedly had differences in policy views over the past few months .
ahmadinejad named ali-akbar salehi , iran 's nuclear energy chief , as mottaki 's interim replacement .
neither mottaki nor salehi was part of the geneva negotiating team , which was headed by the head of the supreme national security council , saeid jalili .
iran says its nuclear enrichment program is peaceful , but the west fears it is eventually planning to build a nuclear bomb .
the un security council has imposed several rounds of sanctions on iran because of the enrichment .
author : andrew bowen -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de no real breakthrough as 5 + 1 talks on iran end nuclear talks between the 5 + 1 group and iran have ended in geneva with little sign of progress .
although the two sides have agreed to meet again , the sticking point is the demand for iran to suspend uranium enrichment .
-lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- defiant iran says nuclear position is ' non-negotiable ' diplomats from several world powers met with iran on monday to discuss its nuclear program .
before the meeting , the 5 + 1 team said it would hold firm to its position that iran should stop enriching uranium .
-lrb- 06.12.2010 -rrb- iran agrees to resume negotiations as eu tightens sanctions european foreign ministers have approved tighter sanctions on iran .
tehran has condemned the measures but at the same time signalled it was willing to resume negotiations over its nuclear program .
-lrb- 26.07.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive. diplomacy germany impounds a plane owned by thailand 's crown prince after bangkok fails to pay its debts .
watch the video dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for iran nuclear talks to continue despite minister firing -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 13.12.2010 germany calls for iran nuclear talks to continue despite minister firing großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran has only just resumed nuclear talks with the 5 + 1 group iran 's foreign minister has been dismissed by president mahmoud ahmadinejad shortly after the country resumed talks with the west over its nuclear program , leading germany to urge iran to continue in the talks . german foreign minister guido westerwelle called on iran to continue negotiations with world powers over its contentious nuclear activities despite the firing of his iranian counterpart on monday .
" we trust that the talks that have just begun in geneva will continue and that different political line-ups will not lead to an interruption or a hesitation at those talks , " westerwelle said ahead of a regular eu foreign ministers meeting in brussels .
germany and the five permanent members of the united nations security council resumed talks with iran in the swiss city last week after a 14-month hiatus .
the so-called 5 + 1 group and iran agreed to meet again in istanbul in january .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mottaki was not part of iran 's negotiating team in geneva iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad dismissed his foreign minister manouchehr mottaki , a career diplomat in the office since august 2005 .
the iranian government offered no public explanation of the firing .
while mottaki has been staunch defender of iran 's nuclear program and ahmadinejad , the two men reportedly had differences in policy views over the past few months .
ahmadinejad named ali-akbar salehi , iran 's nuclear energy chief , as mottaki 's interim replacement .
neither mottaki nor salehi was part of the geneva negotiating team , which was headed by the head of the supreme national security council , saeid jalili .
iran says its nuclear enrichment program is peaceful , but the west fears it is eventually planning to build a nuclear bomb .
the un security council has imposed several rounds of sanctions on iran because of the enrichment .
author : andrew bowen -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de no real breakthrough as 5 + 1 talks on iran end nuclear talks between the 5 + 1 group and iran have ended in geneva with little sign of progress .
although the two sides have agreed to meet again , the sticking point is the demand for iran to suspend uranium enrichment .
-lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- defiant iran says nuclear position is ' non-negotiable ' diplomats from several world powers met with iran on monday to discuss its nuclear program .
before the meeting , the 5 + 1 team said it would hold firm to its position that iran should stop enriching uranium .
-lrb- 06.12.2010 -rrb- iran agrees to resume negotiations as eu tightens sanctions european foreign ministers have approved tighter sanctions on iran .
tehran has condemned the measures but at the same time signalled it was willing to resume negotiations over its nuclear program .
-lrb- 26.07.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press opinion : wikileaks ' latest release is a diplomatic waterloo africa -pipe- 13.12.2010 wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell gained information on all aspects of nigeria 's oil business the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria . leaked us diplomatic cables from last year , carried by a number of international newspapers and magazines , show that royal dutch shell - among the major oil producers in nigeria - have infiltrated key nigerian ministries and have been using links to us officials to gain information on rival oil companies in the country , and the movements and objectives of militants in the niger delta region .
shell 's level of penetration into the governmental structure of nigeria - one of the world 's largest oil exporters - have given the company access to politicians and decision-makers at the highest level , providing it with insider knowledge of all movements and negotiations within those ministries .
according to dr. heinz jockers , a nigeria expert and a member of the eu election observation mission to nigeria , shell has personnel in the finance , interior , national planning , defense , environment , energy and foreign affairs ministries as well as influence over a number of presidential advisers , parliamentarians , governors , and high-ranked tribal rulers .
high level infiltration in major ministeries and oil-producing states " shell operatives - although they are unofficially employed by the company - have infiltrated the majority of the most important ministries in the nigerian government , " jockers told deutsche welle .
" they will of course also have their people in the ministries of the main oil-producing states . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell used nigerian sources to help secure its interests jockers said that the main aim of the shell operatives would be to gain information on everything which could in one way or the other affect the company 's business .
" areas of interest for these people would be the position of other competitors , be it companies or countries ; their offers regarding oil deals in nigeria , the pricing scale for oil in the country , and the level of governmental support for security , " he said .
the leaked cables show that shell had obtained information that nigeria had invited bids for oil concessions from china and was concerned at the possibility of increased competition from the people 's republic .
they also show that shell executives requested confirmation from us officials on russian gas giant gazprom 's interest in nigeria after information was obtained from ministerial channels .
jockers added that the practice of infiltration was so widespread that it is highly likely that other large companies have embedded personnel in governmental offices as this was the only way that advantages in business could be gained in nigeria .
" these could include : julius berger , chevron , hochtief , siemens , peugeot , haliburton , and mercedes , " he said .
" you have to remember : nigeria is a chaotic and highly corrupt country .
to do business there , you have to play the game . "
shell contacted us officials over delta militant threat bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell wanted us help with getting information on militants ann pickard , shell 's top executive in nigeria , was also revealed to have spoken to us officials in 2008 about the threat of militants in the niger delta which had , at its peak in 2006 , shut down a quarter of nigeria 's oil output .
an amnesty in 2009 ended the acts of sabotage being carried out on vulnerable pipelines and platforms , such as shell 's soku gas facility which had been the target of militant rocket attacks at the height of the so-called oil war .
" shell had been the main target of attacks by militants since the early 1990s , " heinrich bergstresser , a nigeria expert at the german institute of global and area studies -lrb- giga -rrb- in hamburg , told deutsche welle .
" the sabotages and attacks on shell 's installations , among others , were and are executed not just by militants but also orchestrated by complicit agents within the oil companies .
they benefit from the attacks because these people are very often also in charge of managing the payment of compensation which offers the opportunity to keep certain amounts of the payment for themselves . "
the cable dispatches from 2008 showed that shell 's pickard had contacted the us consulate in lagos with an offer to share " intelligence " on militant activity in exchange for information on a shipment of surface-to-air missiles which had allegedly been destined for nigerian militant groups in the delta region .
cables hint at shell 's involvement with local godfathers the cables describe how pickard was also unconvinced that a certain governor in the delta region " lacked the connections among rivers state militant leaders to successfully coopt them as the governors in delta and bayelsa states have done with militants in their states , " and that she believed the clash between the military and militants was " a proxy war for ongoing disputes " between rival governors .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : playing both sides in the delta struggle is a dangerous game this section of the cable transcripts hints at the possibility that shell has been attempting to use its influence to control local leaders , a comlicated and dangerous practice according to heinrich bergstresser .
" shell is playing with fire if it has or had any connection with the governors and militants , " he said .
" on the one hand , the oil companies can not control the governors but on the other hand they can try to persuade them to act in favor of the companies and in their own interest .
i am sure that they are paying certain amounts to the governors but that does not guarantee anything . "
bergstresser added that very often the oil companies find themselves caught between a rock and a hard place .
" the militias have emancipated themselves from their political godfathers and have started their own business of attacks and kidnappings so the oil companies find themselves sandwiched between profit-making , being threatened by militias , and keeping very close relationships with the federal government . "
author : nick amies editor : rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de illegal arms shipments to nigeria raise stakes ahead of 2011 elections general elections in nigeria are still several months away , but tensions are rising with memories still fresh of the 2007 poll which saw widespread allegations of corruption , voter fraud and violence .
-lrb- 01.12.2010 -rrb- biafra war anniversary highlights nigeria ’ s uncertain future " biafra " was the taunt german children used for skinny kids in the late 60s - the term was synonymous with starvation .
it is now 40 years since the end of the biafra war , and nigeria 's future still hangs in the balance .
-lrb- 15.01.2010 -rrb- shell settles lawsuit over killing of nigerian activists european oil giant royal dutch shell has agreed to pay $ 15.5 million -lrb- 11.2 million euros -rrb- to the families of six nigerian activists executed in 1995 but has refused to accept any liability for the violence .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series by teaching stand-up comedy , bryan encourages his students to discover their talents .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press opinion : wikileaks ' latest release is a diplomatic waterloo africa -pipe- 13.12.2010 wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell gained information on all aspects of nigeria 's oil business the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria . leaked us diplomatic cables from last year , carried by a number of international newspapers and magazines , show that royal dutch shell - among the major oil producers in nigeria - have infiltrated key nigerian ministries and have been using links to us officials to gain information on rival oil companies in the country , and the movements and objectives of militants in the niger delta region .
shell 's level of penetration into the governmental structure of nigeria - one of the world 's largest oil exporters - have given the company access to politicians and decision-makers at the highest level , providing it with insider knowledge of all movements and negotiations within those ministries .
according to dr. heinz jockers , a nigeria expert and a member of the eu election observation mission to nigeria , shell has personnel in the finance , interior , national planning , defense , environment , energy and foreign affairs ministries as well as influence over a number of presidential advisers , parliamentarians , governors , and high-ranked tribal rulers .
high level infiltration in major ministeries and oil-producing states " shell operatives - although they are unofficially employed by the company - have infiltrated the majority of the most important ministries in the nigerian government , " jockers told deutsche welle .
" they will of course also have their people in the ministries of the main oil-producing states . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell used nigerian sources to help secure its interests jockers said that the main aim of the shell operatives would be to gain information on everything which could in one way or the other affect the company 's business .
" areas of interest for these people would be the position of other competitors , be it companies or countries ; their offers regarding oil deals in nigeria , the pricing scale for oil in the country , and the level of governmental support for security , " he said .
the leaked cables show that shell had obtained information that nigeria had invited bids for oil concessions from china and was concerned at the possibility of increased competition from the people 's republic .
they also show that shell executives requested confirmation from us officials on russian gas giant gazprom 's interest in nigeria after information was obtained from ministerial channels .
jockers added that the practice of infiltration was so widespread that it is highly likely that other large companies have embedded personnel in governmental offices as this was the only way that advantages in business could be gained in nigeria .
" these could include : julius berger , chevron , hochtief , siemens , peugeot , haliburton , and mercedes , " he said .
" you have to remember : nigeria is a chaotic and highly corrupt country .
to do business there , you have to play the game . "
shell contacted us officials over delta militant threat bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell wanted us help with getting information on militants ann pickard , shell 's top executive in nigeria , was also revealed to have spoken to us officials in 2008 about the threat of militants in the niger delta which had , at its peak in 2006 , shut down a quarter of nigeria 's oil output .
an amnesty in 2009 ended the acts of sabotage being carried out on vulnerable pipelines and platforms , such as shell 's soku gas facility which had been the target of militant rocket attacks at the height of the so-called oil war .
" shell had been the main target of attacks by militants since the early 1990s , " heinrich bergstresser , a nigeria expert at the german institute of global and area studies -lrb- giga -rrb- in hamburg , told deutsche welle .
" the sabotages and attacks on shell 's installations , among others , were and are executed not just by militants but also orchestrated by complicit agents within the oil companies .
they benefit from the attacks because these people are very often also in charge of managing the payment of compensation which offers the opportunity to keep certain amounts of the payment for themselves . "
the cable dispatches from 2008 showed that shell 's pickard had contacted the us consulate in lagos with an offer to share " intelligence " on militant activity in exchange for information on a shipment of surface-to-air missiles which had allegedly been destined for nigerian militant groups in the delta region .
cables hint at shell 's involvement with local godfathers the cables describe how pickard was also unconvinced that a certain governor in the delta region " lacked the connections among rivers state militant leaders to successfully coopt them as the governors in delta and bayelsa states have done with militants in their states , " and that she believed the clash between the military and militants was " a proxy war for ongoing disputes " between rival governors .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : playing both sides in the delta struggle is a dangerous game this section of the cable transcripts hints at the possibility that shell has been attempting to use its influence to control local leaders , a comlicated and dangerous practice according to heinrich bergstresser .
" shell is playing with fire if it has or had any connection with the governors and militants , " he said .
" on the one hand , the oil companies can not control the governors but on the other hand they can try to persuade them to act in favor of the companies and in their own interest .
i am sure that they are paying certain amounts to the governors but that does not guarantee anything . "
bergstresser added that very often the oil companies find themselves caught between a rock and a hard place .
" the militias have emancipated themselves from their political godfathers and have started their own business of attacks and kidnappings so the oil companies find themselves sandwiched between profit-making , being threatened by militias , and keeping very close relationships with the federal government . "
author : nick amies editor : rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de illegal arms shipments to nigeria raise stakes ahead of 2011 elections general elections in nigeria are still several months away , but tensions are rising with memories still fresh of the 2007 poll which saw widespread allegations of corruption , voter fraud and violence .
-lrb- 01.12.2010 -rrb- biafra war anniversary highlights nigeria ’ s uncertain future " biafra " was the taunt german children used for skinny kids in the late 60s - the term was synonymous with starvation .
it is now 40 years since the end of the biafra war , and nigeria 's future still hangs in the balance .
-lrb- 15.01.2010 -rrb- shell settles lawsuit over killing of nigerian activists european oil giant royal dutch shell has agreed to pay $ 15.5 million -lrb- 11.2 million euros -rrb- to the families of six nigerian activists executed in 1995 but has refused to accept any liability for the violence .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
revolution calling women have played a crucial role in the arab uprisings , using the internet to spread the message .
watch the video security concerns there is a growing connection between security and natural resources .
listen to the interview podcast series life without the arts would be a lot less colorful , but guides like lukas help experience the arts .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.03.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press opinion : wikileaks ' latest release is a diplomatic waterloo africa -pipe- 13.12.2010 wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell gained information on all aspects of nigeria 's oil business the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria . leaked us diplomatic cables from last year , carried by a number of international newspapers and magazines , show that royal dutch shell - among the major oil producers in nigeria - have infiltrated key nigerian ministries and have been using links to us officials to gain information on rival oil companies in the country , and the movements and objectives of militants in the niger delta region .
shell 's level of penetration into the governmental structure of nigeria - one of the world 's largest oil exporters - have given the company access to politicians and decision-makers at the highest level , providing it with insider knowledge of all movements and negotiations within those ministries .
according to dr. heinz jockers , a nigeria expert and a member of the eu election observation mission to nigeria , shell has personnel in the finance , interior , national planning , defense , environment , energy and foreign affairs ministries as well as influence over a number of presidential advisers , parliamentarians , governors , and high-ranked tribal rulers .
high level infiltration in major ministeries and oil-producing states " shell operatives - although they are unofficially employed by the company - have infiltrated the majority of the most important ministries in the nigerian government , " jockers told deutsche welle .
" they will of course also have their people in the ministries of the main oil-producing states . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell used nigerian sources to help secure its interests jockers said that the main aim of the shell operatives would be to gain information on everything which could in one way or the other affect the company 's business .
" areas of interest for these people would be the position of other competitors , be it companies or countries ; their offers regarding oil deals in nigeria , the pricing scale for oil in the country , and the level of governmental support for security , " he said .
the leaked cables show that shell had obtained information that nigeria had invited bids for oil concessions from china and was concerned at the possibility of increased competition from the people 's republic .
they also show that shell executives requested confirmation from us officials on russian gas giant gazprom 's interest in nigeria after information was obtained from ministerial channels .
jockers added that the practice of infiltration was so widespread that it is highly likely that other large companies have embedded personnel in governmental offices as this was the only way that advantages in business could be gained in nigeria .
" these could include : julius berger , chevron , hochtief , siemens , peugeot , haliburton , and mercedes , " he said .
" you have to remember : nigeria is a chaotic and highly corrupt country .
to do business there , you have to play the game . "
shell contacted us officials over delta militant threat bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell wanted us help with getting information on militants ann pickard , shell 's top executive in nigeria , was also revealed to have spoken to us officials in 2008 about the threat of militants in the niger delta which had , at its peak in 2006 , shut down a quarter of nigeria 's oil output .
an amnesty in 2009 ended the acts of sabotage being carried out on vulnerable pipelines and platforms , such as shell 's soku gas facility which had been the target of militant rocket attacks at the height of the so-called oil war .
" shell had been the main target of attacks by militants since the early 1990s , " heinrich bergstresser , a nigeria expert at the german institute of global and area studies -lrb- giga -rrb- in hamburg , told deutsche welle .
" the sabotages and attacks on shell 's installations , among others , were and are executed not just by militants but also orchestrated by complicit agents within the oil companies .
they benefit from the attacks because these people are very often also in charge of managing the payment of compensation which offers the opportunity to keep certain amounts of the payment for themselves . "
the cable dispatches from 2008 showed that shell 's pickard had contacted the us consulate in lagos with an offer to share " intelligence " on militant activity in exchange for information on a shipment of surface-to-air missiles which had allegedly been destined for nigerian militant groups in the delta region .
cables hint at shell 's involvement with local godfathers the cables describe how pickard was also unconvinced that a certain governor in the delta region " lacked the connections among rivers state militant leaders to successfully coopt them as the governors in delta and bayelsa states have done with militants in their states , " and that she believed the clash between the military and militants was " a proxy war for ongoing disputes " between rival governors .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : playing both sides in the delta struggle is a dangerous game this section of the cable transcripts hints at the possibility that shell has been attempting to use its influence to control local leaders , a comlicated and dangerous practice according to heinrich bergstresser .
" shell is playing with fire if it has or had any connection with the governors and militants , " he said .
" on the one hand , the oil companies can not control the governors but on the other hand they can try to persuade them to act in favor of the companies and in their own interest .
i am sure that they are paying certain amounts to the governors but that does not guarantee anything . "
bergstresser added that very often the oil companies find themselves caught between a rock and a hard place .
" the militias have emancipated themselves from their political godfathers and have started their own business of attacks and kidnappings so the oil companies find themselves sandwiched between profit-making , being threatened by militias , and keeping very close relationships with the federal government . "
author : nick amies editor : rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de illegal arms shipments to nigeria raise stakes ahead of 2011 elections general elections in nigeria are still several months away , but tensions are rising with memories still fresh of the 2007 poll which saw widespread allegations of corruption , voter fraud and violence .
-lrb- 01.12.2010 -rrb- biafra war anniversary highlights nigeria ’ s uncertain future " biafra " was the taunt german children used for skinny kids in the late 60s - the term was synonymous with starvation .
it is now 40 years since the end of the biafra war , and nigeria 's future still hangs in the balance .
-lrb- 15.01.2010 -rrb- shell settles lawsuit over killing of nigerian activists european oil giant royal dutch shell has agreed to pay $ 15.5 million -lrb- 11.2 million euros -rrb- to the families of six nigerian activists executed in 1995 but has refused to accept any liability for the violence .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- feedback in your opinion , has shell done anything wrong by gaining influence in nigerian government ministeries ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
transatlantic voices expert opinion no international cooperation has been declared dead or dying as often as the european union .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press opinion : wikileaks ' latest release is a diplomatic waterloo africa -pipe- 13.12.2010 wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell gained information on all aspects of nigeria 's oil business the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria . leaked us diplomatic cables from last year , carried by a number of international newspapers and magazines , show that royal dutch shell - among the major oil producers in nigeria - have infiltrated key nigerian ministries and have been using links to us officials to gain information on rival oil companies in the country , and the movements and objectives of militants in the niger delta region .
shell 's level of penetration into the governmental structure of nigeria - one of the world 's largest oil exporters - have given the company access to politicians and decision-makers at the highest level , providing it with insider knowledge of all movements and negotiations within those ministries .
according to dr. heinz jockers , a nigeria expert and a member of the eu election observation mission to nigeria , shell has personnel in the finance , interior , national planning , defense , environment , energy and foreign affairs ministries as well as influence over a number of presidential advisers , parliamentarians , governors , and high-ranked tribal rulers .
high level infiltration in major ministeries and oil-producing states " shell operatives - although they are unofficially employed by the company - have infiltrated the majority of the most important ministries in the nigerian government , " jockers told deutsche welle .
" they will of course also have their people in the ministries of the main oil-producing states . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell used nigerian sources to help secure its interests jockers said that the main aim of the shell operatives would be to gain information on everything which could in one way or the other affect the company 's business .
" areas of interest for these people would be the position of other competitors , be it companies or countries ; their offers regarding oil deals in nigeria , the pricing scale for oil in the country , and the level of governmental support for security , " he said .
the leaked cables show that shell had obtained information that nigeria had invited bids for oil concessions from china and was concerned at the possibility of increased competition from the people 's republic .
they also show that shell executives requested confirmation from us officials on russian gas giant gazprom 's interest in nigeria after information was obtained from ministerial channels .
jockers added that the practice of infiltration was so widespread that it is highly likely that other large companies have embedded personnel in governmental offices as this was the only way that advantages in business could be gained in nigeria .
" these could include : julius berger , chevron , hochtief , siemens , peugeot , haliburton , and mercedes , " he said .
" you have to remember : nigeria is a chaotic and highly corrupt country .
to do business there , you have to play the game . "
shell contacted us officials over delta militant threat bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell wanted us help with getting information on militants ann pickard , shell 's top executive in nigeria , was also revealed to have spoken to us officials in 2008 about the threat of militants in the niger delta which had , at its peak in 2006 , shut down a quarter of nigeria 's oil output .
an amnesty in 2009 ended the acts of sabotage being carried out on vulnerable pipelines and platforms , such as shell 's soku gas facility which had been the target of militant rocket attacks at the height of the so-called oil war .
" shell had been the main target of attacks by militants since the early 1990s , " heinrich bergstresser , a nigeria expert at the german institute of global and area studies -lrb- giga -rrb- in hamburg , told deutsche welle .
" the sabotages and attacks on shell 's installations , among others , were and are executed not just by militants but also orchestrated by complicit agents within the oil companies .
they benefit from the attacks because these people are very often also in charge of managing the payment of compensation which offers the opportunity to keep certain amounts of the payment for themselves . "
the cable dispatches from 2008 showed that shell 's pickard had contacted the us consulate in lagos with an offer to share " intelligence " on militant activity in exchange for information on a shipment of surface-to-air missiles which had allegedly been destined for nigerian militant groups in the delta region .
cables hint at shell 's involvement with local godfathers the cables describe how pickard was also unconvinced that a certain governor in the delta region " lacked the connections among rivers state militant leaders to successfully coopt them as the governors in delta and bayelsa states have done with militants in their states , " and that she believed the clash between the military and militants was " a proxy war for ongoing disputes " between rival governors .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : playing both sides in the delta struggle is a dangerous game this section of the cable transcripts hints at the possibility that shell has been attempting to use its influence to control local leaders , a comlicated and dangerous practice according to heinrich bergstresser .
" shell is playing with fire if it has or had any connection with the governors and militants , " he said .
" on the one hand , the oil companies can not control the governors but on the other hand they can try to persuade them to act in favor of the companies and in their own interest .
i am sure that they are paying certain amounts to the governors but that does not guarantee anything . "
bergstresser added that very often the oil companies find themselves caught between a rock and a hard place .
" the militias have emancipated themselves from their political godfathers and have started their own business of attacks and kidnappings so the oil companies find themselves sandwiched between profit-making , being threatened by militias , and keeping very close relationships with the federal government . "
author : nick amies editor : rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de illegal arms shipments to nigeria raise stakes ahead of 2011 elections general elections in nigeria are still several months away , but tensions are rising with memories still fresh of the 2007 poll which saw widespread allegations of corruption , voter fraud and violence .
-lrb- 01.12.2010 -rrb- biafra war anniversary highlights nigeria ’ s uncertain future " biafra " was the taunt german children used for skinny kids in the late 60s - the term was synonymous with starvation .
it is now 40 years since the end of the biafra war , and nigeria 's future still hangs in the balance .
-lrb- 15.01.2010 -rrb- shell settles lawsuit over killing of nigerian activists european oil giant royal dutch shell has agreed to pay $ 15.5 million -lrb- 11.2 million euros -rrb- to the families of six nigerian activists executed in 1995 but has refused to accept any liability for the violence .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- feedback in your opinion , has shell done anything wrong by gaining influence in nigerian government ministeries ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
violence in nigeria nigeria has been rocked once again by ethnic clashes between christians and muslims .
watch the video the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlusconi warns ousting him would be ' political folly ' -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de elections -pipe- 13.12.2010 berlusconi warns ousting him would be ' political folly ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlusconi is up against a failed coalition , a garbage crisis and several alleged sex scandals italian prime minister silvio berlusconi has urged lawmakers not to oust him in a no-confidence vote on tuesday .
the prime minister said the country 's economic stability depended on him surviving the vote . prime minister silvio berlusconi on monday addressed the italian upper house ahead of a crucial no-confidence vote on tuesday .
he told lawmakers it would be " political folly " to let his government collapse .
" our country is being shaken by serious tensions that concern the heart of the economic system - the financial credibility of the state , " berlusconi said .
" the last thing italy needs is a political crisis , " he added , appealing to senators to be " politically responsible " and renew confidence in him and his government .
seeking new allies bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the naples garbage crisis has added to public discontent berlusconi said the country 's economic stability depended on him surviving the vote .
he also offered to widen his ruling coalition to include two centrist parties that currently oppose him .
" i want to reconstitute the alliance of all the moderate forces that were the origin of our political engagement , " he said .
lawmakers in both the upper house senate and the lower house chamber of deputies are to vote on tuesday in a motion presented by the center-left opposition .
the embattled leader has pledged early elections if he loses the vote , which seems to be on a knife 's edge in the lower house .
both lawmakers and population divided backed by allies in the anti-immigration northern league , berlusconi still enjoys support in the senate but lost his automatic majority in the lower house when former coalition partner gianfranco fini broke up the government following a string of scandals involving the premier .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fini turned from close ally to bitter political opponent a defeat for the government in either would force berlusconi to resign , just two-and-a-half years into his term - which is only due to expire in 2013 .
with a slew of sex scandals , a paralyzed economy , nation-wide protests , and his own loyal backers turning against him , berlusconi ’ s base of support has eroded .
his failure to deal with the garbage crisis in naples has also cost him dearly in popular opinion .
tens of thousands took to the streets of rome on saturday in marches organized by the center-left opposition democratic party -lrb- pd -rrb- under the slogan " the italy that wants to change . "
on sunday , thousands rallied in the capital in support of the premier .
ahead of tuesday 's vote , an investigation has also been launched after widespread media allegations that the prime minister 's camp has been trying to buy the votes of undecided parliamentarians .
author : andreas illmer -lrb- afp , ap -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ' i will survive ' says berlusconi , despite protests in rome tens of thousands took to the streets of rome on saturday to protest against prime minister silvio berlusconi 's government ahead of a no-confidence motion in parliament .
berlusconi said he was confident of victory .
-lrb- 11.12.2010 -rrb- pro-berlusconi rallies held across italy after tens of thousands of italians took to the streets of rome in protest of prime minister silvio berlusconi on saturday , supporters of the embattled leader rallied on sunday ahead of an upcoming confidence vote .
-lrb- 12.12.2010 -rrb- berlusconi agrees to seek confidence vote - after budget debate italian prime minister silvio berlusconi has yielded to calls for a no-confidence vote , but only after crucial budget plans have been agreed .
the move is seen as a bid by the premier to regain the political initiative .
-lrb- 14.11.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with interview we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inside europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlusconi warns ousting him would be ' political folly ' -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de elections -pipe- 13.12.2010 berlusconi warns ousting him would be ' political folly ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlusconi is up against a failed coalition , a garbage crisis and several alleged sex scandals italian prime minister silvio berlusconi has urged lawmakers not to oust him in a no-confidence vote on tuesday .
the prime minister said the country 's economic stability depended on him surviving the vote . prime minister silvio berlusconi on monday addressed the italian upper house ahead of a crucial no-confidence vote on tuesday .
he told lawmakers it would be " political folly " to let his government collapse .
" our country is being shaken by serious tensions that concern the heart of the economic system - the financial credibility of the state , " berlusconi said .
" the last thing italy needs is a political crisis , " he added , appealing to senators to be " politically responsible " and renew confidence in him and his government .
seeking new allies bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the naples garbage crisis has added to public discontent berlusconi said the country 's economic stability depended on him surviving the vote .
he also offered to widen his ruling coalition to include two centrist parties that currently oppose him .
" i want to reconstitute the alliance of all the moderate forces that were the origin of our political engagement , " he said .
lawmakers in both the upper house senate and the lower house chamber of deputies are to vote on tuesday in a motion presented by the center-left opposition .
the embattled leader has pledged early elections if he loses the vote , which seems to be on a knife 's edge in the lower house .
both lawmakers and population divided backed by allies in the anti-immigration northern league , berlusconi still enjoys support in the senate but lost his automatic majority in the lower house when former coalition partner gianfranco fini broke up the government following a string of scandals involving the premier .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fini turned from close ally to bitter political opponent a defeat for the government in either would force berlusconi to resign , just two-and-a-half years into his term - which is only due to expire in 2013 .
with a slew of sex scandals , a paralyzed economy , nation-wide protests , and his own loyal backers turning against him , berlusconi ’ s base of support has eroded .
his failure to deal with the garbage crisis in naples has also cost him dearly in popular opinion .
tens of thousands took to the streets of rome on saturday in marches organized by the center-left opposition democratic party -lrb- pd -rrb- under the slogan " the italy that wants to change . "
on sunday , thousands rallied in the capital in support of the premier .
ahead of tuesday 's vote , an investigation has also been launched after widespread media allegations that the prime minister 's camp has been trying to buy the votes of undecided parliamentarians .
author : andreas illmer -lrb- afp , ap -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ' i will survive ' says berlusconi , despite protests in rome tens of thousands took to the streets of rome on saturday to protest against prime minister silvio berlusconi 's government ahead of a no-confidence motion in parliament .
berlusconi said he was confident of victory .
-lrb- 11.12.2010 -rrb- pro-berlusconi rallies held across italy after tens of thousands of italians took to the streets of rome in protest of prime minister silvio berlusconi on saturday , supporters of the embattled leader rallied on sunday ahead of an upcoming confidence vote .
-lrb- 12.12.2010 -rrb- berlusconi agrees to seek confidence vote - after budget debate italian prime minister silvio berlusconi has yielded to calls for a no-confidence vote , but only after crucial budget plans have been agreed .
the move is seen as a bid by the premier to regain the political initiative .
-lrb- 14.11.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
reader response austerity avoidance as anti-austerity riots continue in debt-stricken greece , readers consider the country 's options .
drugs a french socialist candidate pushes to legalize cannabis ahead of the country 's elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 13.12.2010 oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eurozone states have to stop spending money they do n't have and start to cut debt the oecd urged eurozone states to start cutting down their debt loads and correct economic imbalances as soon as possible .
its chief economist gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds , calling them a " good idea " . the organization for economic co-operation and development -lrb- oecd -rrb- warned the 16 eurozone member states on monday that they need to start cutting their heavy debt loads and adopt tough measures to correct economic imbalances . the oecd also urged them to install a permanent crisis resolution mechanism which would force nations to carry out reforms in order to receive aid .
in its latest survey , the oecd predicted the eurozone 's economy would grow by 1.7 percent this year before accelerating to 2 percent in 2011 .
and although the oecd said the eurozone enjoyed a " gradual and sustained recovery " from last year 's steep recession , it also predicted that the pace of recovery would likely be muted .
eurozone states should begin to cut debts by 2011 the latest " fiscal consolidation is the immediate priority to stabilize the public finances and should begin by 2011 at the latest in all countries , " the oecd said in a statement .
oecd chief economist pier carlo padoan acknowledged that it took economists like him too long to understand the underlying reasons for the euro crisis .
" we economists have to plead guilty to that because we now discovered that while looking at -lrb- the -rrb- fiscal -lrb- situation -rrb- that needs to be looked at , we neglected other elements that now we know prove to be extremely important , " he said .
the crisis was caused by an economic imbalance , which had always existed in europe , he added .
the common currency only served to exacerbate that fact .
according to daniel gros , head of the center for european policy studies , one has to go back about 20 years to find the root of the current crisis .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms " will boost growth , said padoan " the problems we have been experiencing at the european periphery go back to german reunification .
at that time , germany experienced a construction and consumption boom which led to a rise in interest rates , while the rest of europe was moving in the opposite direction , " he said .
" beginning in 1995 , it was germany that had to watch its finances while other nations , thanks to the global credit boom , were spending more freely .
now the tables are turning again . "
the massive public debt of practically all of the oecd 's member states , is one of the main problems , said chief economist padoan .
" the first , best solution for countries is strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms to boost growth .
we think this is the way forward . "
financial markets may not grant greece enough time to implement reforms however , eurozone states appear to be moving in the right direction .
" the reforms we are currently witnessing in greece and elsewhere will take effect at some point , " said gros .
" the question we 're asking right now is whether the financial markets will give those countries the time they need to implement the reforms .
germany had enough time .
greece may possibly not . "
this is a scenario no one wants to imagine .
oecd chief economist padoan gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds .
" imagining that there is a european dimension to financial markets , including bond markets , is a good idea , " he said .
author : christoph hasselbach -lrb- db / sst / dpa / afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland bailout reignites fears about the future of the euro germany has seen a number of its own currencies come and go : the deutschmark , the reichsmark and , before that , the mark .
now some analysts are grumbling that the euro may be on its way out too .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- debt crisis exposes the euro 's flaws but divorce is not an option like marriage partners , eurozone nations fight about money .
germany grumbles about paying for the profligacy of others , but pays , since sticking together is the lesser of evils , says die zeit 's josef joffe .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- eurogroup finance ministers agree details of euro safety net eurozone finance ministers have signed off on a 500-billion-euro safety fund to stave off future crises within the single currency zone .
the announcement comes amid concerns over the strength and stability of the euro .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- feedback what should germany do in order to cut its public debt ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
trans-atlantic relations transatlantic voices the disunity among eu member states renders eu foreign policy on libya virtually nonexistent .
foreign trade the golden easter bunny from lindt & sprüngli is looking to hop further afield .
watch the video new-look team austria 's soon-to-be vice-chancellor names an unprecendented number of women to his cabinet .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 13.12.2010 oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eurozone states have to stop spending money they do n't have and start to cut debt the oecd urged eurozone states to start cutting down their debt loads and correct economic imbalances as soon as possible .
its chief economist gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds , calling them a " good idea " . the organization for economic co-operation and development -lrb- oecd -rrb- warned the 16 eurozone member states on monday that they need to start cutting their heavy debt loads and adopt tough measures to correct economic imbalances . the oecd also urged them to install a permanent crisis resolution mechanism which would force nations to carry out reforms in order to receive aid .
in its latest survey , the oecd predicted the eurozone 's economy would grow by 1.7 percent this year before accelerating to 2 percent in 2011 .
and although the oecd said the eurozone enjoyed a " gradual and sustained recovery " from last year 's steep recession , it also predicted that the pace of recovery would likely be muted .
eurozone states should begin to cut debts by 2011 the latest " fiscal consolidation is the immediate priority to stabilize the public finances and should begin by 2011 at the latest in all countries , " the oecd said in a statement .
oecd chief economist pier carlo padoan acknowledged that it took economists like him too long to understand the underlying reasons for the euro crisis .
" we economists have to plead guilty to that because we now discovered that while looking at -lrb- the -rrb- fiscal -lrb- situation -rrb- that needs to be looked at , we neglected other elements that now we know prove to be extremely important , " he said .
the crisis was caused by an economic imbalance , which had always existed in europe , he added .
the common currency only served to exacerbate that fact .
according to daniel gros , head of the center for european policy studies , one has to go back about 20 years to find the root of the current crisis .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms " will boost growth , said padoan " the problems we have been experiencing at the european periphery go back to german reunification .
at that time , germany experienced a construction and consumption boom which led to a rise in interest rates , while the rest of europe was moving in the opposite direction , " he said .
" beginning in 1995 , it was germany that had to watch its finances while other nations , thanks to the global credit boom , were spending more freely .
now the tables are turning again . "
the massive public debt of practically all of the oecd 's member states , is one of the main problems , said chief economist padoan .
" the first , best solution for countries is strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms to boost growth .
we think this is the way forward . "
financial markets may not grant greece enough time to implement reforms however , eurozone states appear to be moving in the right direction .
" the reforms we are currently witnessing in greece and elsewhere will take effect at some point , " said gros .
" the question we 're asking right now is whether the financial markets will give those countries the time they need to implement the reforms .
germany had enough time .
greece may possibly not . "
this is a scenario no one wants to imagine .
oecd chief economist padoan gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds .
" imagining that there is a european dimension to financial markets , including bond markets , is a good idea , " he said .
author : christoph hasselbach -lrb- db / sst / dpa / afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland bailout reignites fears about the future of the euro germany has seen a number of its own currencies come and go : the deutschmark , the reichsmark and , before that , the mark .
now some analysts are grumbling that the euro may be on its way out too .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- debt crisis exposes the euro 's flaws but divorce is not an option like marriage partners , eurozone nations fight about money .
germany grumbles about paying for the profligacy of others , but pays , since sticking together is the lesser of evils , says die zeit 's josef joffe .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- eurogroup finance ministers agree details of euro safety net eurozone finance ministers have signed off on a 500-billion-euro safety fund to stave off future crises within the single currency zone .
the announcement comes amid concerns over the strength and stability of the euro .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with business review we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art glass art has been made on the island of murano for centuries , but it still has an exciting future .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 13.12.2010 oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eurozone states have to stop spending money they do n't have and start to cut debt the oecd urged eurozone states to start cutting down their debt loads and correct economic imbalances as soon as possible .
its chief economist gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds , calling them a " good idea " . the organization for economic co-operation and development -lrb- oecd -rrb- warned the 16 eurozone member states on monday that they need to start cutting their heavy debt loads and adopt tough measures to correct economic imbalances . the oecd also urged them to install a permanent crisis resolution mechanism which would force nations to carry out reforms in order to receive aid .
in its latest survey , the oecd predicted the eurozone 's economy would grow by 1.7 percent this year before accelerating to 2 percent in 2011 .
and although the oecd said the eurozone enjoyed a " gradual and sustained recovery " from last year 's steep recession , it also predicted that the pace of recovery would likely be muted .
eurozone states should begin to cut debts by 2011 the latest " fiscal consolidation is the immediate priority to stabilize the public finances and should begin by 2011 at the latest in all countries , " the oecd said in a statement .
oecd chief economist pier carlo padoan acknowledged that it took economists like him too long to understand the underlying reasons for the euro crisis .
" we economists have to plead guilty to that because we now discovered that while looking at -lrb- the -rrb- fiscal -lrb- situation -rrb- that needs to be looked at , we neglected other elements that now we know prove to be extremely important , " he said .
the crisis was caused by an economic imbalance , which had always existed in europe , he added .
the common currency only served to exacerbate that fact .
according to daniel gros , head of the center for european policy studies , one has to go back about 20 years to find the root of the current crisis .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms " will boost growth , said padoan " the problems we have been experiencing at the european periphery go back to german reunification .
at that time , germany experienced a construction and consumption boom which led to a rise in interest rates , while the rest of europe was moving in the opposite direction , " he said .
" beginning in 1995 , it was germany that had to watch its finances while other nations , thanks to the global credit boom , were spending more freely .
now the tables are turning again . "
the massive public debt of practically all of the oecd 's member states , is one of the main problems , said chief economist padoan .
" the first , best solution for countries is strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms to boost growth .
we think this is the way forward . "
financial markets may not grant greece enough time to implement reforms however , eurozone states appear to be moving in the right direction .
" the reforms we are currently witnessing in greece and elsewhere will take effect at some point , " said gros .
" the question we 're asking right now is whether the financial markets will give those countries the time they need to implement the reforms .
germany had enough time .
greece may possibly not . "
this is a scenario no one wants to imagine .
oecd chief economist padoan gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds .
" imagining that there is a european dimension to financial markets , including bond markets , is a good idea , " he said .
author : christoph hasselbach -lrb- db / sst / dpa / afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland bailout reignites fears about the future of the euro germany has seen a number of its own currencies come and go : the deutschmark , the reichsmark and , before that , the mark .
now some analysts are grumbling that the euro may be on its way out too .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- debt crisis exposes the euro 's flaws but divorce is not an option like marriage partners , eurozone nations fight about money .
germany grumbles about paying for the profligacy of others , but pays , since sticking together is the lesser of evils , says die zeit 's josef joffe .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- eurogroup finance ministers agree details of euro safety net eurozone finance ministers have signed off on a 500-billion-euro safety fund to stave off future crises within the single currency zone .
the announcement comes amid concerns over the strength and stability of the euro .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
austria there is no mention of women in the austrian national anthem , but that is about to change .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video urban exploration ruins of buildings in belgium are eyesores for some , but gateways to urban exploration for others .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prime minister thaci claims victory in kosovo 's election -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de elections -pipe- 13.12.2010 prime minister thaci claims victory in kosovo 's election großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 29 parties and groups were contesting 120 seats an exit poll gives prime minister hashim thaci 's democratic party of kosovo -lrb- pdk -rrb- a solid lead in sunday 's snap elections .
however , his closest rival , pristina mayor isa mustafa , has not yet conceded defeat . prime minister hashim thaci 's democratic party of kosovo -lrb- pdk -rrb- has claimed victory in sunday 's election , with an exit poll showing his party well ahead . official results wo n't be released until monday afternoon , but according to the poll - conducted by the gani bobi agency and based on interviews with 2,200 voters - the pdk received at least 31 percent of votes cast , ahead of pristina mayor isa mustafa 's democratic league of kosovo -lrb- ldk -rrb- , in second with 25 percent . " victory is ours , " thaci told supporters shortly before midnight .
" the elections were a referendum on the european future of kosovo . " citing its own exit poll based on a count of more than 60 percent of ballots cast , the ldk has insisted it is ahead in the vote . " -lsb- the exit poll -rsb- is not a final result .
the ldk is still leading at the kosovo level , " party spokesman arben gashi said .
sunday 's election was the first since kosovo declared independence from serbia nearly three years ago . some 1.6 million voters were eligible to cast their ballots to elect 120 members of parliament . campaign to end corruption bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mustafa promised to sweep away corruption mustafa had campaigned on an anti-corruption ticket , hoping to capitalize on growing disillusionment with the country 's poor economic standing . " we will give you a government ... which will root out corruption and boost the image and name of kosovo , " said mustafa in his final rally . a recent survey showed 73 percent of the population thought corruption had worsened under thaci , who has led the country since it declared independence in february 2008 .
with unemployment at nearly 50 percent , polls prior to sunday 's vote showed thaci 's pdk party at 30 percent - only 2 percent ahead of the ldk . thaci , a former guerrilla leader , addressed his final rally on friday with a pledge to dramatically increase the salaries of civil servants . " the decision to increase salaries is not an electoral promise .
it is a reality , " he told cheering supporters . elections were called when the ldk pulled out of the coalition government due to a constitutional dispute concerning its former leader fatmir sejdiu , also kosovo 's president until he stepped down in september . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a majority think corruption has worsened under thaci from guerrillas to politicians the pdk , which emerged from ethnic albanian guerrilla units that fought serbian forces in the late 1990s , has claimed that it is best placed to make kosovo a member of the european union as quickly as possible . the same claim is made by the ldk , which was founded by the late " father of the nation , " ibrahim rugova . also looking for a share of the power is the alliance for the future of kosovo -lrb- aak -rrb- , considered the third force in the country 's politics . the vetevendosje -lrb- self-determination -rrb- and fer -lrb- new spirit -rrb- parties , both taking part in the elections for the first time , aim to woo young disenchanted voters . unity test bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : participation of serbs in southern kosovo was seen as a test of multi-ethnic credentials in all , 29 parties and organizations fielded candidates for the 120-seat legislature , with 10 seats reserved for the serb minority and another 10 for other ethnic groups . many ethnic serbs boycotted the elections , with serbia , which does not recognize kosovo 's independence , urging them to stay away .
participation in the north , which is linked directly by road to serbia , was minimal . about 60 percent of the serb population left kosovo in 1999 , after nato bombings that forced serb troops out of the region . of the 120,000 serbs who remain , about half live in the south , and many of them were expected to take part in the ballot .
their involvement was seen as a crucial test of kosovo 's claim to be a multi-ethnic state . since declaring independence , kosovo has been recognized by 72 countries , including the united states and all but five of the eu 's 27 members . author : richard connor , gabriel borrud , martin kuebler -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de serbian leader tadic says compromises possible over kosovo serbia says it 's ready for possible compromises with the european union over its breakaway former province of kosovo , which unilaterally declared independence in 2008 .
-lrb- 28.08.2010 -rrb- serbia says it will never recognize kosovo serbia has passed a resolution that it will never recognize kosovo 's independence .
last week , the internatinal court of justice ruled the 2008 declaration of independence to be in accordance with international law .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- international court rules that kosovo independence is lawful the international court of justice in the hague has declared that kosovo 's independence is in line with international law .
the ruling is a blow to serbia but has been welcomed by germany and the us .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic kosovo votes in first post-independence polls -lrb- 12.12.2010 -rrb- 9798 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio ethics a frenchwoman wrote to the president on her deathbed , pleading for her son 's right to die .
listen to the audio the kremlin russia 's defense minister comes under fire from the top over gaps in the country 's armaments .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
successful european tech startups continue to lag behind -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 19.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 successful european tech startups continue to lag behind großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : european startups still lag behind us counterparts after a series of recent european tech conferences , silicon valley continues to dominate .
tech venture capital on this side of the atlantic still remains relatively small , due to bureaucracy , language problems . it was hard to ignore the dominance of silicon valley at this year 's leweb tech conference last week in paris - nearly all the speakers and featured guests were from california 's famed tech hub .
while european innovation is picking up speed , it is starting from a long way behind the american startup scene - participants at the conference blamed over-cautious investors and misguided government spending .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : european venture capitalists have n't been investing in tech startups as long as they have been in silicon valley a vicious cycle in europe adventurous investors tend to be entrepreneurs themselves , so , where silicon valley has created a virtuous cycle , europe is faced with a chicken-and-egg situation : there 's not enough money because there are not enough start-ups , and there are not enough start-ups because there 's not enough money .
" i know quite a few companies that moved to the valley just because they found capital there , " said sarik weber , a german entrepreneur who runs the start-up incubator programme hanse ventures in hamburg .
his company provides capital and advice to new businesses .
" the whole silicon valley ecosystem is based on 40 to 50 years of entrepreneurs building their companies doing exits very successfully and then reinvesting this money back into the ecosystem , " he added . " this is what really fosters the european startup scene .
when we get great exits like skype or others , these people reinvest their money into european start-ups and we have to create that . "
while european governments spend more on research and development than their american and japanese counterparts , experts say that tax incentives and subsidies are not doing anything to encourage private-sector investors .
" the state is doing its job , but do the individual investors have enough confidence to invest more in research and development ? " said pierre monhen , who teaches innovation policy at the united nations university in maastricht , the netherlands .
" there is a more cautious attitude in europe than in the us . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some entrepeneurs claim that with the proper political direction , european startups could do much better poor european political decisions hinder innovation , entrepeneurs say but several entrepreneurs at leweb maintained that it is a political problem , and less of a problem of entrepeneurship . european governments , and the european union itself , may be spending money , but it is not very effective .
johan staeul von holstein , who has most recently founded mycube , a social networking startup based in singapore , thinks innovation could be encouraged with judicious tax reforms .
" there 's as much capital as you can possibly imagine around , " he said .
" it 's just that the wrong people are sitting on the capital .
politicians need to understand the value of entrepreneurship and innovation and growth , and by giving huge tax benefits to entrepreneurs making their own decisions and putting large amounts of money in the hands of entrepreneurs : that would change the whole system in 24 hours . "
a more serious problem is cultural attitudes and bad ideas , according to tariq krim , one of europe 's most successful entrepreneurs .
he set up jolicloud , a company that makes a linux-based operating system which can be installed on any computer .
he adds that spending on innovation is misguided , and tends to go to a few large companies rather than lots of small ones .
in 2008 , france , for example , invested 99 million euros -lrb- $ 131 million -rrb- in a new search engine called quearo , which was supposed to be a european answer to google .
since then , essentially nothing has happened and the project appears to be dead .
" they should have rather give money to 20 start ups , " krim said .
“ it has to be a competitive state about ideas . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many european startups , like slense , limit themselves to only a few languages , like english - making the european market a lot smaller .
heterogeneous language , culture slow european tech startups but beyond poor investment , the single european market may have simplified the movement of labor and money , but it has not created a single customer base .
freddy mini , who runs netvibes , a start-up that creates personalised dashboards on the web , pointed out that american companies automatically have a leg up , as they have a much more culturally and linguistically homogenous employment and customer base than their european counterparts .
in other words , he noted , european companies have to hire specialists for each corner of the continent .
" the first advice is forget your culture - get to the culture of the country where you live and hire people from the ground , " he said .
author : molly guinness , paris editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de niche search engines pick needles out of web haystacks several new search engines focus on segments of the web , like social networking or microblogging sites .
they are not looking to challenge google , but they are letting users search places that google ca n't reach .
-lrb- 22.09.2010 -rrb- swedish start-up offers new micro-donation system flattr lets readers donate by clicking buttons on blogs and other websites .
some sites have reported income of over 1,000 euros as a result of the new company .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- ‘ hubs ’ offer like-minded businesses a shared home as more people start businesses from home with nothing but a laptop , the rapidly growing ' hub ' network aims to create a mutually beneficial work environment that provides some of the perks of working for a larger firm .
-lrb- 21.07.2010 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ethnic mongolian dissident in china disappears -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 25.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 13.12.2010 ethnic mongolian dissident in china disappears großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prominent civil rights activist hada is one of china 's longest-jailed political prisoners inner mongolia is part of the people 's republic of china .
ethnic mongolians there have been fighting for their right to keep their cultural heritage alive .
their most prominent activist is hada , who has now gone missing . in 1996 a chinese court had convicted ethnic mongolian dissident hada on charges of separatism and espionage .
after he had served his 15-year jail term , everyone was awaiting his release .
he was supposed to return home last friday .
" we don ’ t have any knowledge about his whereabouts .
we have been in contact with two of his relatives .
until this morning they have told us that they don ’ t have any official statement from the chinese authorities about his whereabouts and condition , " says enghebatu togochog from the south mongolian human rights information center based in new york .
preserving mongolian identity the 55-year old hada has always tried to preserve the religious and cultural heritage of ethnic mongolians in china .
as a student , hada campaigned to save the mongolian identity under chinese rule : which meant language , religion , traditions and customs .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the autonomous region of inner mongolia is rich in natural resources and crucial for china 's economy corinna francis from amnesty international says the situation in inner mongolia is difficult : " there are serious restrictions on freedom of expression .
any statement of cultural identity is taken by the authorities as a kind of separatism or extremism .
they are discriminated against in terms of employment .
the mongolian language is at risk of being phased out in schools and the educational system . "
assimilating ethnic minorities the four million ethnic mongolians now form a minority among the eighteen million han chinese living in inner mongolia .
many say that the chinese government is trying to eradicate mongolian culture by imposing chinese culture on young mongolians – a strategy also used to assimilate ethnic minorities in tibet and xinjiang in western china .
hada opened the mongolian academic bookstore in the region 's capital , hohhot – a meeting point for activists demanding greater minority rights .
in 1992 hada and other mongolian intellectuals founded the southern mongolian democracy alliance .
it was the only mongolian organization of its kind within china.the organization ’ s goal was to push for political and social rights for mongolians .
the chinese constitution nominally grants self-governance and autonomy from beijing to ethnic minorities .
whereabouts unknown bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hada organized demonstrations during his student days hada was arrested and his southern mongolian democracy alliance was forbidden after a protest demonstration in 1995 .
hada should have been released on the same day that the nobel peace prize ceremony for liu xiaobo was being held last week .
but he has n't been seen since .
" well , some internet posts in chinese say that hada is dead and that a dead body was found .
but this is not very likely , " says togochog .
wife and son in custody to add to the confusion , some photos were anonymously posted on the internet shortly after the supposed release to prove that hada is still alive .
just days before hada was due to be released , his wife and son were taken into police custody .
their whereabouts are also unknown .
author : chi viet giang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de 47 ethnic minorites in xinjiang xinjiang is often associated with ethnic conflict between uighurs and the han chinese but there are many other ethnic communities in china 's biggest province .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- dalai lama turns 75 : question over his succession remains the tibetan spiritual leader , the dalai lama turns 75 on tuesday .
as the nobel laureate gets older , concerns are mounting over his succession .
-lrb- 05.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : a new chance for china 's democracy movement the massive protests by the chinese government against the nobel peace prize for liu xiaobo show just how afraid the leaders in beijing are of critics such as liu , deutsche welle 's adrienne woltersdorf argues .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- 9798 threatened communities preserving tribal communities and their habitats can help sustain the environment .
dr. james albert of the society for threatened peoples speaks about the dangers to tribals in india listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 23.06.11 countdown to the general elections in thailand former khmer rouge leaders face tribunal in cambodia finding agent orange : investigating us bases in south korea podcast rss-feed listen to asia live mobile security indian foreign secretary nirupama rao is in islamabad for peace talks with the pakistani government .
dw correspondent murali krishnan talks about the latest developments bangladesh bangladesh became a sovereign independent state in 1971 .
shameem chowdhuri of radio bangladesh betar talks about his experiences as a young freedom fighter fukushima japanese politics the japanese government can not decide who will foot the bill for the country 's nuclear disaster .
women living in fear a new poll lists afghanistan , india and pakistan as the most dangerous countries for women . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 29.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 13.12.2010 uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stop and listen this christmas , says cage against the machine a uk campaign aims to rock the christmas single charts - with the sound of silence .
they 're using experimentalist composer john cage 's masterpiece of silence , 4 ' 33 " , to get people listening to the needs around them . it all started as a joke . last year , a uk campaign succeeded in its aim of preventing the winner of casting show x-factor from becoming christmas number one by encouraging people to help " killing in the name " by us band rage against the machine top the charts . this year , uk art therapy masters student dave hilliard quipped to his friends , " let 's get silence to number one . " " it was meant to be a joke , " julie hilliard , dave hilliard 's wife and co-initiator of cage against the machine -lrb- catm -rrb- , told deutsche welle .
" but it captured the imagination of so many people . " when it comes to getting silence on the charts , the avant-garde work " 4 ' 33 " by american experimental composer john cage -lrb- 1912-1992 -rrb- is the first that comes to mind .
the score calls for any combination of musicians to go on stage and play absolutely nothing for exactly four minutes and 33 seconds .
for some , an agonizing exercise in patience ; for others , ear-opening proof that escape from the unceasing aural bombardment of our multimedia society is , indeed , possible . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john cage was fascinated by incidental sound open your ears the hilliards , along with long-time friend and music pr expert john rogers , are less interested in making a profound artistic statement and keener raising money for a few underfunded charities . starting monday , december 13 , supporters can purchase a specially recorded version of cage 's groundbreaking 1952 work , which included the participation of artists like aeroplane , billy bragg and kooks - though , of course , they ca n't really be heard . they recorded their own version to ensure that the revenue went directly to selected charities , but also because most other editions separate the work 's three movements into three tracks - but only single tracks are eligible for the single charts . revenue from the recordings and from ads on the groups website go to charities like c.a.l.m. , which provides support to young men considering suicide , the british tinnitus association , and organizations that offer music education to underprivileged children . " when you stop talking and you start to look at the world around you , you can see all these other needs that are there , besides your own , " said julie hilliard , adding that the charities they chose particularly reflected their appeal to stop and listen . ' cage would approve ' new york-based john cage expert richard kostelanetz said he did n't think the composer would have objected to the use of his work in this way . " he lived on a very busy avenue and did n't own a record player , because he preferred to listen to the noise outside his house , " kostelanetz told deutsche welle . the cage expert added that the setting of the work is crucial to making it a work of art and that the irony is so much stronger when it is performed by renowned artists - like those involved in catm .
the audience is bound to listen even more intently , knowing what they could be hearing from those artists , if they were actually playing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the black eyed peas are number one this week taking back the charts with more than 80,000 facebook fans as of december 13 , cage against the machine may be well on its way to rocking the uk 's christmas charts . they 'll have stiff competition from black eyed peas , who top this week 's singles chart in the uk with " the time -lrb- dirty bit -rrb- " and from matt cardle , the most recent winner of the uk 's popular casting show , x factor . the media has largely focused on the cage against the machine campaign as a counterpoint to market-tailored pop ballade and , specifically , to x factor .
however , hilliard said she and her husband have nothing against the casting show , but simply are n't interested in watching it . " if you do n't like it , do n't turn it on ; if you do n't like the record , do n't buy it , " she said . and if cage against the machine has its way , christmas eve in the uk will truly be a silent night - or at least one filled with incidental noise . author : kate bowen editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de music hotel brings new beat to berlin berlin 's new music hotel , nhow , combines luxury , design and quality musical facilities .
it hopes to bridge the gap between international and local artists - but the city 's underground scene is n't easily impressed .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- young german pianist unites classical music with world of video games benyamin nuss , 21 , has been wowing audiences in some of europe 's finest concert halls with solo piano interpretations of video game music by nobuo uematsu .
he spoke to deutsche welle about this unusual project .
-lrb- 04.12.2010 -rrb- france to start carte musique digital music subsidy plan france hopes to change young shoppers ' habits by subsidizing the sale of music with a " music card . "
but the government has not yet said which online services people will be able to use to make purchases .
-lrb- 27.10.2010 -rrb- feedback what will you be listening to on christmas ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 12 - favorite alt-rockers ja , panik are back subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 13.12.2010 uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stop and listen this christmas , says cage against the machine a uk campaign aims to rock the christmas single charts - with the sound of silence .
they 're using experimentalist composer john cage 's masterpiece of silence , 4 ' 33 " , to get people listening to the needs around them . it all started as a joke . last year , a uk campaign succeeded in its aim of preventing the winner of casting show x-factor from becoming christmas number one by encouraging people to help " killing in the name " by us band rage against the machine top the charts . this year , uk art therapy masters student dave hilliard quipped to his friends , " let 's get silence to number one . " " it was meant to be a joke , " julie hilliard , dave hilliard 's wife and co-initiator of cage against the machine -lrb- catm -rrb- , told deutsche welle .
" but it captured the imagination of so many people . " when it comes to getting silence on the charts , the avant-garde work " 4 ' 33 " by american experimental composer john cage -lrb- 1912-1992 -rrb- is the first that comes to mind .
the score calls for any combination of musicians to go on stage and play absolutely nothing for exactly four minutes and 33 seconds .
for some , an agonizing exercise in patience ; for others , ear-opening proof that escape from the unceasing aural bombardment of our multimedia society is , indeed , possible . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john cage was fascinated by incidental sound open your ears the hilliards , along with long-time friend and music pr expert john rogers , are less interested in making a profound artistic statement and keener raising money for a few underfunded charities . starting monday , december 13 , supporters can purchase a specially recorded version of cage 's groundbreaking 1952 work , which included the participation of artists like aeroplane , billy bragg and kooks - though , of course , they ca n't really be heard . they recorded their own version to ensure that the revenue went directly to selected charities , but also because most other editions separate the work 's three movements into three tracks - but only single tracks are eligible for the single charts . revenue from the recordings and from ads on the groups website go to charities like c.a.l.m. , which provides support to young men considering suicide , the british tinnitus association , and organizations that offer music education to underprivileged children . " when you stop talking and you start to look at the world around you , you can see all these other needs that are there , besides your own , " said julie hilliard , adding that the charities they chose particularly reflected their appeal to stop and listen . ' cage would approve ' new york-based john cage expert richard kostelanetz said he did n't think the composer would have objected to the use of his work in this way . " he lived on a very busy avenue and did n't own a record player , because he preferred to listen to the noise outside his house , " kostelanetz told deutsche welle . the cage expert added that the setting of the work is crucial to making it a work of art and that the irony is so much stronger when it is performed by renowned artists - like those involved in catm .
the audience is bound to listen even more intently , knowing what they could be hearing from those artists , if they were actually playing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the black eyed peas are number one this week taking back the charts with more than 80,000 facebook fans as of december 13 , cage against the machine may be well on its way to rocking the uk 's christmas charts . they 'll have stiff competition from black eyed peas , who top this week 's singles chart in the uk with " the time -lrb- dirty bit -rrb- " and from matt cardle , the most recent winner of the uk 's popular casting show , x factor . the media has largely focused on the cage against the machine campaign as a counterpoint to market-tailored pop ballade and , specifically , to x factor .
however , hilliard said she and her husband have nothing against the casting show , but simply are n't interested in watching it . " if you do n't like it , do n't turn it on ; if you do n't like the record , do n't buy it , " she said . and if cage against the machine has its way , christmas eve in the uk will truly be a silent night - or at least one filled with incidental noise . author : kate bowen editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de music hotel brings new beat to berlin berlin 's new music hotel , nhow , combines luxury , design and quality musical facilities .
it hopes to bridge the gap between international and local artists - but the city 's underground scene is n't easily impressed .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- young german pianist unites classical music with world of video games benyamin nuss , 21 , has been wowing audiences in some of europe 's finest concert halls with solo piano interpretations of video game music by nobuo uematsu .
he spoke to deutsche welle about this unusual project .
-lrb- 04.12.2010 -rrb- france to start carte musique digital music subsidy plan france hopes to change young shoppers ' habits by subsidizing the sale of music with a " music card . "
but the government has not yet said which online services people will be able to use to make purchases .
-lrb- 27.10.2010 -rrb- feedback what will you be listening to on christmas ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski clip no. 9 - the bonny situation subscribe on itunes get the rss feed visit germany dw-tv tells you the top things to visit in this fun rhineland city .
" recommended " as video on demand download here -lrb- mp4 -rrb- cologne cologne carnival the claudius therme ' suenner im walfisch ' brewery -lrb- german -rrb- word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
all i want for christmas is ... -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de christmas -pipe- 13.12.2010 all i want for christmas is ... großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children have left instructions for christmas gift-givers for over a century toothpaste may seem like an unusual item on a christmas wish list - but over a century ago , it was n't so strange .
an exhibition in dortmund unveils the touching and sometimes comical history of holiday wish lists . in some countries , christmas presents are exchanged on the morning of december 25 , while most europeans give gifts on the evening of the 24th .
no matter when they 're unwrapped , it 's hard to imagine christmas without presents . the tradition , however , is relatively new .
it was n't until the end of the 19th century that gift-giving was associated with christmas in germany .
before that , st. nicholas brought presents to well-behaved children on december 6 . with the advent of gifts , it was only inevitable that children would help the givers - real and imagined - out with wish lists . " the development of the christmas gift-giving tradition mainly had to do with the fact that more presents and toys were available as a result of industrialization , " historian isolde parussel told deutsche welle . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a christmas gift table may have looked like this in the 19th century of course , not everyone could afford the new toys , but that did n't keep children from writing out their wishes . old toys made just like new parussel is behind the exhibition " … bring us many nice things , " which is currently on show at the museum of art and cultural history in the western german city of dortmund .
over 100 holiday wish lists are on display , along with decorative gift tables , toys and festive christmas trees from the past century . most of the items were collected from private households following a request published in german newspapers . some of the wish lists are addressed to st. nicholas or santa claus , but many were written to the ' christkind ' - a sprite-like child , usually depicted with blond hair and angelic wings . in one list from 1899 , a young girl hoped for " a dress for -lsb- my doll -rsb- fraenzchen , a set of colored pencils , a sailor 's hat for me " but also " calling cards and a tube of calodont tooth paste . "
at the end of the 19th century , tooth paste in tubes was extremely modern - something extraordinary even for a little girl . as the end of the girl 's letter reveals , gifts were n't necessarily expected to be new .
" and then , dear christkind , -lsb- my dolls -rsb- siegfried and dori need to be taken to the hospital .
dori 's hair is growing very sparsely on her head and her limbs are very droopy .
both of these things need to be fixed , " wrote the girl . despite having to organize presents for so many children , the christkind occasionally found time to write back .
one such letter - composed on a typewriter and dated christmas eve , 1911 - is included in the exhibition ; parussel suspects , of course , that it was written by the parents .
" the angels say that you and -lsb- your sister -rsb- staenzerl were n't very good doll mothers this year , " read the letter : " under these circumstances , entrusting you with a real baby seems to be too much of a responsibility . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : isolde parussel curated the dortmund exhibition apparently , the girls had wished for a sibling - a gift their parents apparently were n't yet willing to provide . some things do n't change the letters and lists offer insights into the everyday lives of various generations .
children from the post-world war ii generation wanted nothing more than a warm hat or a notebook for school .
one short generation later , one girl asked for a knee-length skirt , according to the trend of the time . the most recent wish list in the collection is from 2008 .
jascha from dortmund had cut out pictures from catalogues - complete with price tags - to illustrate his list , which mainly consisted of electronics . jascha 's wishes are expensive , but , when taking the standard of living into account , they 're not necessarily more valuable than the things children asked for a century ago , said parussel . " you ca n't necessarily say that this child is just focused on consumption , " she said .
he put just as much effort into his wish list , writing it neatly and decorating it with colored pencils . " author : sola huelsewig -lrb- kjb -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de toys r ' scarce in german stores toy makers and retailers in germany could n't be happier : christmas shoppers appear to have a near insatiable appetite for toys .
products from traditional european toymakers like lego and playmobil are in high demand .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- racism controversy dampens holland 's sinterklaas tradition children across europe eagerly await the arrival of st. nicholas on december 6 .
but in holland , the tradition has racist implications that the dutch are n't quite willing to give up .
-lrb- 05.12.2010 -rrb- ' dear christkind ' : a german post office answers christmas letters in the small town of engelskirchen , thousands of letters from around the world arrive at a seasonal christmas post office , all addressed to one person .
for over 20 years , postal workers have written back .
-lrb- 24.12.2009 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
culture calendar july happenings from wagner to world music - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
recent picture galleries car fetish exhibition berlin fashion week day of the kiss ai weiwei , the photographer podcast series traveling on a budget ?
dw presents shoestring guides to european cities .
get all the episodes subscribe on itunes get the rss feed podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
all i want for christmas is ... -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de christmas -pipe- 13.12.2010 all i want for christmas is ... großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children have left instructions for christmas gift-givers for over a century toothpaste may seem like an unusual item on a christmas wish list - but over a century ago , it was n't so strange .
an exhibition in dortmund unveils the touching and sometimes comical history of holiday wish lists . in some countries , christmas presents are exchanged on the morning of december 25 , while most europeans give gifts on the evening of the 24th .
no matter when they 're unwrapped , it 's hard to imagine christmas without presents . the tradition , however , is relatively new .
it was n't until the end of the 19th century that gift-giving was associated with christmas in germany .
before that , st. nicholas brought presents to well-behaved children on december 6 . with the advent of gifts , it was only inevitable that children would help the givers - real and imagined - out with wish lists . " the development of the christmas gift-giving tradition mainly had to do with the fact that more presents and toys were available as a result of industrialization , " historian isolde parussel told deutsche welle . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a christmas gift table may have looked like this in the 19th century of course , not everyone could afford the new toys , but that did n't keep children from writing out their wishes . old toys made just like new parussel is behind the exhibition " … bring us many nice things , " which is currently on show at the museum of art and cultural history in the western german city of dortmund .
over 100 holiday wish lists are on display , along with decorative gift tables , toys and festive christmas trees from the past century . most of the items were collected from private households following a request published in german newspapers . some of the wish lists are addressed to st. nicholas or santa claus , but many were written to the ' christkind ' - a sprite-like child , usually depicted with blond hair and angelic wings . in one list from 1899 , a young girl hoped for " a dress for -lsb- my doll -rsb- fraenzchen , a set of colored pencils , a sailor 's hat for me " but also " calling cards and a tube of calodont tooth paste . "
at the end of the 19th century , tooth paste in tubes was extremely modern - something extraordinary even for a little girl . as the end of the girl 's letter reveals , gifts were n't necessarily expected to be new .
" and then , dear christkind , -lsb- my dolls -rsb- siegfried and dori need to be taken to the hospital .
dori 's hair is growing very sparsely on her head and her limbs are very droopy .
both of these things need to be fixed , " wrote the girl . despite having to organize presents for so many children , the christkind occasionally found time to write back .
one such letter - composed on a typewriter and dated christmas eve , 1911 - is included in the exhibition ; parussel suspects , of course , that it was written by the parents .
" the angels say that you and -lsb- your sister -rsb- staenzerl were n't very good doll mothers this year , " read the letter : " under these circumstances , entrusting you with a real baby seems to be too much of a responsibility . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : isolde parussel curated the dortmund exhibition apparently , the girls had wished for a sibling - a gift their parents apparently were n't yet willing to provide . some things do n't change the letters and lists offer insights into the everyday lives of various generations .
children from the post-world war ii generation wanted nothing more than a warm hat or a notebook for school .
one short generation later , one girl asked for a knee-length skirt , according to the trend of the time . the most recent wish list in the collection is from 2008 .
jascha from dortmund had cut out pictures from catalogues - complete with price tags - to illustrate his list , which mainly consisted of electronics . jascha 's wishes are expensive , but , when taking the standard of living into account , they 're not necessarily more valuable than the things children asked for a century ago , said parussel . " you ca n't necessarily say that this child is just focused on consumption , " she said .
he put just as much effort into his wish list , writing it neatly and decorating it with colored pencils . " author : sola huelsewig -lrb- kjb -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de toys r ' scarce in german stores toy makers and retailers in germany could n't be happier : christmas shoppers appear to have a near insatiable appetite for toys .
products from traditional european toymakers like lego and playmobil are in high demand .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- racism controversy dampens holland 's sinterklaas tradition children across europe eagerly await the arrival of st. nicholas on december 6 .
but in holland , the tradition has racist implications that the dutch are n't quite willing to give up .
-lrb- 05.12.2010 -rrb- ' dear christkind ' : a german post office answers christmas letters in the small town of engelskirchen , thousands of letters from around the world arrive at a seasonal christmas post office , all addressed to one person .
for over 20 years , postal workers have written back .
-lrb- 24.12.2009 -rrb- 9798 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
dw-tv meet exceptional women who have achieved success in male-dominated jobs .
dj smokin joe car designer juliane blasi architect zeynep fadillioglu chef annie féolde conductor inma shara podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the views from your windows -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 16.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de view from my window -pipe- 13.12.2010 the views from your windows back to first page back 2/3 ahead bildunterschrift : evenskjer , norway " a little summer cruise ship traffic from my kitchen window here in the village of evenskjer in northern norway ! -lrb- 68 ' 35 north and 16 ' 34 east -rrb- .
during the summer many ships like this one pass by my home through the tjeldsund sound on their way from the lofoten islands to the northern cape .
the mountain on the other side is called sætertind -lrb- 1095 metres above sea level -rrb- and is on norway ’ s largest island , the hinn island .
as you can see , even though it is summer there is still snow on the top of the mountain ! "
gerhard mundt is a canadian of german and norwegian descent living with his family in this picturesque part of the world . bildunterschrift : quezon city , philippines " this is the view from my window every time i come home after work .
i live on the 11th floor of a high-rise condominium .
the view i have here is that of the skyscrapers and the residential areas of an adjacent city .
i love how the colorful sunset always gives me that relaxing feeling after a stressful day in the office . "
sarah quinto works as a german travel accountant at ibm business services , inc. in quezon city , philippines . bildunterschrift : prague , czech republic " for ten months now , i 've been living in a dormitory in prague located on the vltava river .
my room is on the fifteenth floor .
even though the streets below are filled with cars nearly every day , i like the view .
it has everything : a bit of the city , a bit of the forest , a bit of the river and a bit of the sky . "
trang dothu is 20 years old and a student in prague . bildunterschrift : ashford , ireland " i am very lucky to have this view looking from my kitchen window over the valley in ashford , county wicklow , ireland . "
brendan lynch is a taxi driver in dublin , ireland . bildunterschrift : sydney , australia " i was walking in the sydney central business district and decided to take a picture for deutsche welle .
this picture is of world square -lrb- well part of it -rrb- in the city of sydney in the state of new south wales , australia .
sorry about the traffic , but i feel the effect of the moving traffic actually gives the picture character : - -rrb- " matthew samson is 26 years old and lives in sydney , australia . bildunterschrift : kyiv , ukraine " this is the view from the balcony on the top floor of a large building , which offers a magnificent view of one of the residential districts of the ukrainian capital of kyiv .
hundreds of thousands of people live here , including me .
every morning many commuters going to work cross the dnieper river , which divides the city , and in the evenings they return the same way .
therefore the single bridge connecting the residential district with the business district is often the scene of massive traffic jams .
but the citizens of kyiv are n't too worried by this .
every night you can see hundreds of windows lit up , behind each one , a cozy pocket of life and light . "
valentin bondaruk lives in kyiv where he studies international business and management at the kyiv vadym hetman national economic university .
he is an amateur photographer who enjoys taking photos of cityscapes . bildunterschrift : dharwad , india " when i just peep out from my window i can see these hot chillies spread to dry as the temperature risesin our city .
once this city used to be very cool and it would be always raining but god knows what has happened ; the temperature has reached 38 celsius here . "
c. pavan lives in dharwad , a city in the indian state of karnataka . bildunterschrift : turin , italy " this is the view from my window to the inner courtyard of the building where i 'm living in turin , italy .
one of my neighbors pegged out clothing and i found this particular item interesting and funny . "
martin bruckmanns has lived in turin since 1993 after moving from germany to study in italy . he is a professional photographer . bildunterschrift : skopje , macedonia i must say i was very amazed by each photo published , so i thought i 'd submit one myself .
this is the view from my window on a sunny day from the apartment where i am staying during my university studies in skopje , macedonia , taken while i was studying for my upcoming exams . "
ljubica todorova is in her third year of studies in english language and literature at the university of skopje . bildunterschrift : nairobi , kenya " i live in a slum called kyangombe in kenya so as i am seated outside enjoying the breeze , i see these three little boys playing along the railroad tracks in the dirt .
it reminds me of the innocent months of yesteryear . "
mutua alex michael lives in kyangombe , near nairobi , kenya . see more of the views from your windows . back to first page back 2/3 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the views from your windows -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 17.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de view from my window -pipe- 13.12.2010 the views from your windows 1/3 ahead whether you look out at a city skyline , a field of corn or a mountain , deutsche welle wants to see the view from your perspective .
send us a photo of what is happening outside your window . by submitting a photo and text to deutsche welle you permit dw to crop the photo for size , as well as edit the text for style and appropriateness of content .
you will retain copyright for the photo but allow deutsche welle to publish it on our website . not all submitted photos will be published .
please limit your submitted photos to landscape orientation . bildunterschrift : lake constance , germany " this is the view from my office window on the island of mainau on lake constance .
as environmental manager and security engineer of mainau gmbh i have a wonderful job in many ways . "
heinrich straub works on the island of mainau on lake constance in germany . bildunterschrift : newfoundland , canada " here is a view from my living room window .
despite a warm and beautiful autumn the winter has arrived .
but because of the cold i can enjoy a very wonderful ice jungle pattern on my window .
darryl cremasco is from canada .
he is 28 years old and lives in newfoundland , canada , where he works as a choral conductor and professional musician . bildunterschrift : matraszele , hungary " when i look out my window , i see the old church in my small village .
the church stands on a hill and looks beautiful in the sunset .
if i want to calm myself , all i have to do is look out of my window . "
nagy eniko lives in matraszele , hungary . bildunterschrift : berlin , germany " when i look out of my window i can see the nikolaikirche , the oldest church in berlin , followed by the tower of the famous red town hall with the berlin flag on top .
and all those great buildings are overlooked by the highest tv-tower -lrb- 368 meters or 1207 feet -rrb- in germany marking the alexanderplatz in berlin-mitte .
my flat is on the second floor of a so-called plattenbau ; a number of pre-fabricated buildings marking the 750th anniversary of berlin 's foundation . "
friedrich zimmermann is a retired media worker who lives in berlin . bildunterschrift : taipei , taiwan “ this is the view from the fourth floor of the library at the national taiwan university in taipei .
taipei is a city crowded with people and vehicles .
but at the ntu campus , all we see are bikes and azaleas with an elegant atmosphere .
from this angle , royal palm boulevard happened to come into my sight . ”
yully lin lives in taipei , taiwan , and studies at ntu . bildunterschrift : kherson , ukraine " this is the view from my bedroom window .
since childhood , this apple tree has welcomed me in the mornings .
it 's beautiful whenever the weather is nice , especially in spring when it blooms .
i also like the tree in autumn - the apples will turn red and smell wonderful . "
my name is liuba and i am from kherson , in ukraine .
my city is not far from the black sea .
i study and in my spare time i like to take photos . bildunterschrift : somewhere over java , indonesia " i took this picture when i was flying on garuda indonesia airways from jakarta to bali island for work .
i remember i taking this picture on april 18 , 2010 as we flew over java .
the reason i took it was because it was momentous to see clouds gather so whitely under the sunrise .
it was very comforting in my eyes and through my soul .
it made me realize that we are nothing without god . "
tita armadiani is a 29-year-old woman from indonesia where she is a local television reporter . bildunterschrift : rishal dandha , nepal " this picture is of rishal dandha -lrb- lakury byanjang -rrb- .
rishal dandha is about 1750 meters above sea level .
from here you can see a lot : the entire katmandu valley -lrb- the capital of nepal -rrb- and the entire chain of the himalayas , from mount manasulu to everest .
it is also a nice village .
there are always great people around here , and in the spring we see many beautiful flowers and have plenty of clean , fresh air to breathe . "
santosh giri is a guide for dav-summit club , a german alpine club in nepal . bildunterschrift : buenos aires , argentina " i live on a fifth floor in one of the many buildings that can be found in the city of buenos aires .
my neighborhood is not as chaotic as it may look like , in fact it 's quite nice and quiet .
today we have a sunny winter day . "
luciano quiroga lives in buenos aires , argentina . bildunterschrift : colorado , us " this is the view from my window ... somewhere in colorado !
there 's not much happening outside , besides deer , black bears , foxes , elk , raccoons , squirrels , mountain lions and rabbits marching by ! "
andrea furniss lives " somewhere in colorado , " in the united states . bildunterschrift : marsaskala , malta " this is the view my fiancee and i have from the large windows of our living room .
we overlook marsaskala bay in marsaskala , malta .
originally , i am a " bobbele " from freiburg , suedbaden , but given my fiancee is maltese , we decided to move to malta . "
dominik kalweit is a political scientist working as project and research manager for the maltese development ngo kopin . see more of the views from your windows . 1/3 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live european business week making europe 's business your business listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the views from your windows -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de view from my window -pipe- 13.12.2010 the views from your windows 1/3 ahead whether you look out at a city skyline , a field of corn or a mountain , deutsche welle wants to see the view from your perspective .
send us a photo of what is happening outside your window . by submitting a photo and text to deutsche welle you permit dw to crop the photo for size , as well as edit the text for style and appropriateness of content .
you will retain copyright for the photo but allow deutsche welle to publish it on our website . not all submitted photos will be published .
please limit your submitted photos to landscape orientation . bildunterschrift : lake constance , germany " this is the view from my office window on the island of mainau on lake constance .
as environmental manager and security engineer of mainau gmbh i have a wonderful job in many ways . "
heinrich straub works on the island of mainau on lake constance in germany . bildunterschrift : newfoundland , canada " here is a view from my living room window .
despite a warm and beautiful autumn the winter has arrived .
but because of the cold i can enjoy a very wonderful ice jungle pattern on my window .
darryl cremasco is from canada .
he is 28 years old and lives in newfoundland , canada , where he works as a choral conductor and professional musician . bildunterschrift : matraszele , hungary " when i look out my window , i see the old church in my small village .
the church stands on a hill and looks beautiful in the sunset .
if i want to calm myself , all i have to do is look out of my window . "
nagy eniko lives in matraszele , hungary . bildunterschrift : berlin , germany " when i look out of my window i can see the nikolaikirche , the oldest church in berlin , followed by the tower of the famous red town hall with the berlin flag on top .
and all those great buildings are overlooked by the highest tv-tower -lrb- 368 meters or 1207 feet -rrb- in germany marking the alexanderplatz in berlin-mitte .
my flat is on the second floor of a so-called plattenbau ; a number of pre-fabricated buildings marking the 750th anniversary of berlin 's foundation . "
friedrich zimmermann is a retired media worker who lives in berlin . bildunterschrift : taipei , taiwan “ this is the view from the fourth floor of the library at the national taiwan university in taipei .
taipei is a city crowded with people and vehicles .
but at the ntu campus , all we see are bikes and azaleas with an elegant atmosphere .
from this angle , royal palm boulevard happened to come into my sight . ”
yully lin lives in taipei , taiwan , and studies at ntu . bildunterschrift : kherson , ukraine " this is the view from my bedroom window .
since childhood , this apple tree has welcomed me in the mornings .
it 's beautiful whenever the weather is nice , especially in spring when it blooms .
i also like the tree in autumn - the apples will turn red and smell wonderful . "
my name is liuba and i am from kherson , in ukraine .
my city is not far from the black sea .
i study and in my spare time i like to take photos . bildunterschrift : somewhere over java , indonesia " i took this picture when i was flying on garuda indonesia airways from jakarta to bali island for work .
i remember i taking this picture on april 18 , 2010 as we flew over java .
the reason i took it was because it was momentous to see clouds gather so whitely under the sunrise .
it was very comforting in my eyes and through my soul .
it made me realize that we are nothing without god . "
tita armadiani is a 29-year-old woman from indonesia where she is a local television reporter . bildunterschrift : rishal dandha , nepal " this picture is of rishal dandha -lrb- lakury byanjang -rrb- .
rishal dandha is about 1750 meters above sea level .
from here you can see a lot : the entire katmandu valley -lrb- the capital of nepal -rrb- and the entire chain of the himalayas , from mount manasulu to everest .
it is also a nice village .
there are always great people around here , and in the spring we see many beautiful flowers and have plenty of clean , fresh air to breathe . "
santosh giri is a guide for dav-summit club , a german alpine club in nepal . bildunterschrift : buenos aires , argentina " i live on a fifth floor in one of the many buildings that can be found in the city of buenos aires .
my neighborhood is not as chaotic as it may look like , in fact it 's quite nice and quiet .
today we have a sunny winter day . "
luciano quiroga lives in buenos aires , argentina . bildunterschrift : colorado , us " this is the view from my window ... somewhere in colorado !
there 's not much happening outside , besides deer , black bears , foxes , elk , raccoons , squirrels , mountain lions and rabbits marching by ! "
andrea furniss lives " somewhere in colorado , " in the united states . bildunterschrift : marsaskala , malta " this is the view my fiancee and i have from the large windows of our living room .
we overlook marsaskala bay in marsaskala , malta .
originally , i am a " bobbele " from freiburg , suedbaden , but given my fiancee is maltese , we decided to move to malta . "
dominik kalweit is a political scientist working as project and research manager for the maltese development ngo kopin . see more of the views from your windows . 1/3 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9798 dw-tv europe live hin & weg we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
the views from your windows -pipe- reader response -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 18.12.2010 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de view from my window -pipe- 13.12.2010 the views from your windows back to first page back 2/3 ahead bildunterschrift : evenskjer , norway " a little summer cruise ship traffic from my kitchen window here in the village of evenskjer in northern norway ! -lrb- 68 ' 35 north and 16 ' 34 east -rrb- .
during the summer many ships like this one pass by my home through the tjeldsund sound on their way from the lofoten islands to the northern cape .
the mountain on the other side is called sætertind -lrb- 1095 metres above sea level -rrb- and is on norway ’ s largest island , the hinn island .
as you can see , even though it is summer there is still snow on the top of the mountain ! "
gerhard mundt is a canadian of german and norwegian descent living with his family in this picturesque part of the world . bildunterschrift : quezon city , philippines " this is the view from my window every time i come home after work .
i live on the 11th floor of a high-rise condominium .
the view i have here is that of the skyscrapers and the residential areas of an adjacent city .
i love how the colorful sunset always gives me that relaxing feeling after a stressful day in the office . "
sarah quinto works as a german travel accountant at ibm business services , inc. in quezon city , philippines . bildunterschrift : prague , czech republic " for ten months now , i 've been living in a dormitory in prague located on the vltava river .
my room is on the fifteenth floor .
even though the streets below are filled with cars nearly every day , i like the view .
it has everything : a bit of the city , a bit of the forest , a bit of the river and a bit of the sky . "
trang dothu is 20 years old and a student in prague . bildunterschrift : ashford , ireland " i am very lucky to have this view looking from my kitchen window over the valley in ashford , county wicklow , ireland . "
brendan lynch is a taxi driver in dublin , ireland . bildunterschrift : sydney , australia " i was walking in the sydney central business district and decided to take a picture for deutsche welle .
this picture is of world square -lrb- well part of it -rrb- in the city of sydney in the state of new south wales , australia .
sorry about the traffic , but i feel the effect of the moving traffic actually gives the picture character : - -rrb- " matthew samson is 26 years old and lives in sydney , australia . bildunterschrift : kyiv , ukraine " this is the view from the balcony on the top floor of a large building , which offers a magnificent view of one of the residential districts of the ukrainian capital of kyiv .
hundreds of thousands of people live here , including me .
every morning many commuters going to work cross the dnieper river , which divides the city , and in the evenings they return the same way .
therefore the single bridge connecting the residential district with the business district is often the scene of massive traffic jams .
but the citizens of kyiv are n't too worried by this .
every night you can see hundreds of windows lit up , behind each one , a cozy pocket of life and light . "
valentin bondaruk lives in kyiv where he studies international business and management at the kyiv vadym hetman national economic university .
he is an amateur photographer who enjoys taking photos of cityscapes . bildunterschrift : dharwad , india " when i just peep out from my window i can see these hot chillies spread to dry as the temperature risesin our city .
once this city used to be very cool and it would be always raining but god knows what has happened ; the temperature has reached 38 celsius here . "
c. pavan lives in dharwad , a city in the indian state of karnataka . bildunterschrift : turin , italy " this is the view from my window to the inner courtyard of the building where i 'm living in turin , italy .
one of my neighbors pegged out clothing and i found this particular item interesting and funny . "
martin bruckmanns has lived in turin since 1993 after moving from germany to study in italy . he is a professional photographer . bildunterschrift : skopje , macedonia i must say i was very amazed by each photo published , so i thought i 'd submit one myself .
this is the view from my window on a sunny day from the apartment where i am staying during my university studies in skopje , macedonia , taken while i was studying for my upcoming exams . "
ljubica todorova is in her third year of studies in english language and literature at the university of skopje . bildunterschrift : nairobi , kenya " i live in a slum called kyangombe in kenya so as i am seated outside enjoying the breeze , i see these three little boys playing along the railroad tracks in the dirt .
it reminds me of the innocent months of yesteryear . "
mutua alex michael lives in kyangombe , near nairobi , kenya . see more of the views from your windows . back to first page back 2/3 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ? 9798 dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink plus listen live web features different ways to get dw dw screensaver social bookmarking our rss feeds dw widgets integrated search dw on facebook newsletters netvibes.com the way you want it mobile newsletters audio / video podcasts view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view deutsche welle on fb bobs online voting for sixth annual blog competition the bobs official website © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : online vigilantes have taken to their keyboards following the arrest in the netherlands of two teenagers involved in last week 's distributed denial of service attacks against mastercard , lawyers tell young hackers to be aware of the law . on saturday , a second dutch teenager , 19 , was arrested for having been part of a cyberattack that targeted the dutch public prosecutor 's website .
the prosecutor 's site became a target after the dutch prosecutor arrested another dutch teenager , 16 , who had joined an online " hacktivist " attack in the name of wikileaks .
this is just the latest in a series of attacks against perceived enemies of wikileaks largely by a group of its supporters , a shadowy online vigilante group that calls itself anonymous .
" any individual , organization , corporation , and / or government entity which supports freedom of speech and a free internet is an ally of anonymous , " the organization said on its website . " if you work to suppress freedom of expression and a free internet your efforts will be halted . "
the group is more like a semi-controlled herd rather than a traditional heirarchical organization - it does not have clear leadership or direction .
previously , it targeted the church of scientology and the website of the recording industry association of america .
but now that some have been caught for their alleged crimes , it may serve as a legal warning shot to those who feel that they can hide in this hacktivist huddle .
misused technology this time around , in response to the wikileaks case , anonymous followers have been using a computer application known as low orbit ion canon -lrb- loic -rrb- .
using this software , these hacktivists , managed to temporarily disable a number of major financial companý websites , including mastercard 's .
the software used in the attacks was originally designed to help protect websites by testing their penetrability , but when pointed at an unsuspecting site it has the reverse effect .
when used en masse , it is a crude but simple way to create a ddos , or distributed denial of service attack , which floods websites with high level of artificial traffic , making them temporarily slow or more often , unusable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wikileaks founder julian assange , has neither condoned nor condemned the denial of service attacks eddy willems , the spokesperson for tthe european expert group for it security told deutsche welle that there is n't much to the application , which he describes as a " pretty screen " with some buttons to press .
yet the flood module , which crafts packets to send to the target to deal with , can be quite debilitating .
" when you get enough people doing this , " he said , " something has to give .
in this case it 's the targets ' websites . "
the war is not over if anonymous is to be believed , they will keep on bringing these kinds of online attacks as long as there are enough wikileaks supporters on board to bring it about .
as far as they are concerned , it is a matter of principle .
but legal experts are now warning hot-blooded young activists to be aware of where their principle might land them , for to use loic to launch an attack is to misuse it , and that can have very serious consequences .
" users are putting themselves at risk , " willems continued .
" they are not real cyber criminals and they do n't realize that they could be sent to prison for this kind of thing . "
this is the same type of attack that was used against estonia in 2007 , although the estonian one did not involve the use of a software application , but rather through more organized botnets .
estonian government officials suspected that the russian government was somehow involved in attacking estonian financial and political websites , but in the end , only one estonian citizen was punished , who had to pay a relatively small fine .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mastercard was one of the hacktivists ' targets in some cases , finding users is not difficult as was the case of the 19-year-old dutch teenager who was arrested on saturday - as he had neglected to mask his ip address , making it relatively simple for law enforcement to find him .
depending on the protective measures users take , its perpetrators can be easily traced within the space of a day or even just a couple of hours , something which begs the question as to why anonymous has chosen the approach it has .
one suggestion is that the loic application is easy to come by and easy to use , while another is simply that hacktivists are naive .
risky business while the first dutch teenager was released , the younger boy remains in detention over what a spokesman for the dutch prosecutors described as potentially more serious violations .
some observers believe the two boys will be among a handful likely to be singled out and held up as a deterrent to more ddos attacks of this nature .
however , izaz ali , a british attorney specializing in internet law , told deutsche welle that in the case of britain there could be more wide-spread arrests .
" we 're talking here about the computer misuse act , " he said .
" the government will be forcing the police to look into this . "
using loic in a similar fashion may also violate similar statutes in germany and the netherlands .
damage limitation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future for blue-eyed hackers ?
contrary to some reports , ali says it is not illegal to download the software , as long as it is not used for anything other than it was originally intended .
" it is no different from using microsoft word to write something that causes damage to someone else , a computer virus for example . "
damage is the main issue here - if these attacks were simply a case of tit-for-tat that did not affect the possibility to legitimately use affected sites , the lawyer says it would be a different story .
in other words , ali advocates actual old-fashioned street protests to protest their cause in time-honored style .
" do it the old way , " he said , adding that these kinds of modern cyber attacks are harmful to people who might even share the same views .
" they see they are showing people that the leaks are a good thing , but they are going to cause problems for a lot of people , and this is a bad thing . "
reporter : tamsin walker editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- dutch police arrest hacker over alleged cyber attacks hackers have been waging cyber war on the websites of opponents of wikileaks , saying they 're fighting for a " free and open " internet .
dutch police have arrested a teenager accused of taking part in the attacks .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts contrary to oft-stated claims , the wikileaks cables show no huge credibility gap between official us policies and what diplomats write in confidential cables , say experts .
that doesn ’ t hold true for some other countries .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- australia offers support to wikileaks founder , operation payback begins canberra announced it will offer consular support to wikileaks founder julian assange who 's being held in britain .
meanwhile , hackers shut down the web sites of companies that cut business ties with wikileaks .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 13.12.2010 uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stop and listen this christmas , says cage against the machine a uk campaign aims to rock the christmas single charts - with the sound of silence .
they 're using experimentalist composer john cage 's masterpiece of silence , 4 ' 33 " , to get people listening to the needs around them . it all started as a joke . last year , a uk campaign succeeded in its aim of preventing the winner of casting show x-factor from becoming christmas number one by encouraging people to help " killing in the name " by us band rage against the machine top the charts . this year , uk art therapy masters student dave hilliard quipped to his friends , " let 's get silence to number one . " " it was meant to be a joke , " julie hilliard , dave hilliard 's wife and co-initiator of cage against the machine -lrb- catm -rrb- , told deutsche welle .
" but it captured the imagination of so many people . " when it comes to getting silence on the charts , the avant-garde work " 4 ' 33 " by american experimental composer john cage -lrb- 1912-1992 -rrb- is the first that comes to mind .
the score calls for any combination of musicians to go on stage and play absolutely nothing for exactly four minutes and 33 seconds .
for some , an agonizing exercise in patience ; for others , ear-opening proof that escape from the unceasing aural bombardment of our multimedia society is , indeed , possible . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john cage was fascinated by incidental sound open your ears the hilliards , along with long-time friend and music pr expert john rogers , are less interested in making a profound artistic statement and keener raising money for a few underfunded charities . starting monday , december 13 , supporters can purchase a specially recorded version of cage 's groundbreaking 1952 work , which included the participation of artists like aeroplane , billy bragg and kooks - though , of course , they ca n't really be heard . they recorded their own version to ensure that the revenue went directly to selected charities , but also because most other editions separate the work 's three movements into three tracks - but only single tracks are eligible for the single charts . revenue from the recordings and from ads on the groups website go to charities like c.a.l.m. , which provides support to young men considering suicide , the british tinnitus association , and organizations that offer music education to underprivileged children . " when you stop talking and you start to look at the world around you , you can see all these other needs that are there , besides your own , " said julie hilliard , adding that the charities they chose particularly reflected their appeal to stop and listen . ' cage would approve ' new york-based john cage expert richard kostelanetz said he did n't think the composer would have objected to the use of his work in this way . " he lived on a very busy avenue and did n't own a record player , because he preferred to listen to the noise outside his house , " kostelanetz told deutsche welle . the cage expert added that the setting of the work is crucial to making it a work of art and that the irony is so much stronger when it is performed by renowned artists - like those involved in catm .
the audience is bound to listen even more intently , knowing what they could be hearing from those artists , if they were actually playing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the black eyed peas are number one this week taking back the charts with more than 80,000 facebook fans as of december 13 , cage against the machine may be well on its way to rocking the uk 's christmas charts . they 'll have stiff competition from black eyed peas , who top this week 's singles chart in the uk with " the time -lrb- dirty bit -rrb- " and from matt cardle , the most recent winner of the uk 's popular casting show , x factor . the media has largely focused on the cage against the machine campaign as a counterpoint to market-tailored pop ballade and , specifically , to x factor .
however , hilliard said she and her husband have nothing against the casting show , but simply are n't interested in watching it . " if you do n't like it , do n't turn it on ; if you do n't like the record , do n't buy it , " she said . and if cage against the machine has its way , christmas eve in the uk will truly be a silent night - or at least one filled with incidental noise . author : kate bowen editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de music hotel brings new beat to berlin berlin 's new music hotel , nhow , combines luxury , design and quality musical facilities .
it hopes to bridge the gap between international and local artists - but the city 's underground scene is n't easily impressed .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- young german pianist unites classical music with world of video games benyamin nuss , 21 , has been wowing audiences in some of europe 's finest concert halls with solo piano interpretations of video game music by nobuo uematsu .
he spoke to deutsche welle about this unusual project .
-lrb- 04.12.2010 -rrb- france to start carte musique digital music subsidy plan france hopes to change young shoppers ' habits by subsidizing the sale of music with a " music card . "
but the government has not yet said which online services people will be able to use to make purchases .
-lrb- 27.10.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
culture calendar july happenings from wagner to world music - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.12.2010 stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is another winter of discontent for stuttgart having fired jens keller after only 60 days in charge , stuttgart are rolling the dice again with bruno labbadia , formerly of leverkusen and hamburg .
but can he handle the toughest job in german football ? what do jogi loew , ralf rangnick , matthias sammer , giovanni trapattoni and christian gross have in common ?
if you said that they are all successful coaches who have been fired by stuttgart , you 'd be right .
that might be some small consolation to jens keller , who was axed on sunday after stuttgart suffered an unlucky 2-1 loss to hanover .
that defeat left only moenchengladbach between stuttgart and the very bottom of the table .
" we 're stuck deep in the muck , " stuttgart 's technical director , fredi bobic , said after the hanover disappointment .
" i 've got my thoughts about how we 're going to get out of it . "
bobic declined to elaborate on those mental processes , but stuttgart fans at least have a name and a face to pin to them .
the question is : does bruno labbadia - along with gross and keller , stuttgart 's third coach this season - stand a chance at the hardest club in the league to lead ?
plus and minuses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bruno labbadia is going to have to put his thinking cap on bobic may be counting on what might be called the “ labbadia effect . ”
at each of his previous two teams , big bruno 's charges responded well to his tactical instructions and got off to good starts .
a series of wins such as labbadia engineered at leverkusen and hamburg in 2008 and 2009 respectively would probably be enough for stuttgart , whose only goal right now is to avoid relegation .
that 's not out of the question .
stuttgart , who are currently on 12 points , have been on the losing end of a number of controversial refereeing decisions this season and could argue that their current position in the table does n't accurately reflect their quality .
on the other hand , no one would make the case that this is a good team .
the squad has been unable to compensate for the departures of sami khedira and jens lehmann , veteran star mauro camoranesi has spent more time on his tuchus than on the turf , and chemistry between younger and older players is rumored to be quite poor .
that does n't play to labbadia 's strengths .
at both leverkusen and hamburg , he was criticized for being unapproachable and arrogant , and there were unconfirmed rumors about romantic liaisons , or attempts at such , between him and players ' wives .
whatever the truth may be , both teams suffered drastic downward spirals after their hot starts with him in charge , and he departed after less than a year in charge .
now he 's sitting on a true powder keg , a team whose supporters have in the past besieged their own team bus when they 've been disappointed by results .
labbadia 's first task is to win over those fans , and one thing is clear : it ai n't gonna be easy .
the final step toward relegation ?
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stuttgart fans wish the club had n't sold mario gomez if the new coach had any illusions about what he was getting himself into , he needed only surf briefly on the internet to dispel them .
" why labbadia , " one supporter asked on the online forum of the mass circulation bild newspaper .
" he 'll be gone quicker than he can settle on a starting 11 . "
indeed , the overarching tone of the blogosphere was sarcasm .
" the best management in the league has pulled off another brilliant move and hired a much heralded coach guaranteed to bring stability and continuity to the club , " wrote a user on the football forum of die welt newspaper .
" it looks as if stuttgart have finally committed themselves to getting relegated . "
that comment was typical of many others in blaming management for the team 's current misery .
in particular , supporters are unhappy at the club 's penchant for selling stars .
along with khedira , mario gomez and kevin kuranyi are two of the prominent and popular players stuttgart have flogged off in recent years .
if labbadia does n't pan out quickly , stuttgart could be in the hunt for a dubious record - the greatest number of coaches employed by any one club in a single season .
and if bruno does have to go , the odds are that bobic and others within stuttgart 's management will be going with him .
author : jefferson chase editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hanover hit new high with win over struggling stuttgart hanover continued to surpass expectations , rising to second in the standings with a 2-1 win over beleaguered stuttgart .
now , just third from bottom , stuttgart has decided to dump its coach , jens keller .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- ex-amateur coaches at stuttgart , cologne face uphill battle in jens keller and frank schaefer respectively , stuttgart and cologne hope that an in-house promotion will turn the tide .
but former amateur coaches seldom have long-term success in the bundesliga .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- stuttgart need a reality check as gross takes the fall stuttgart packed off its third coach in three seasons when christian gross was shown the door after a woeful start to the season .
but the club 's position is unlikely to improve until deeper problems are resolved .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live fit & gesund - das gesundheitsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press opinion : wikileaks ' latest release is a diplomatic waterloo africa -pipe- 13.12.2010 wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell gained information on all aspects of nigeria 's oil business the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria . leaked us diplomatic cables from last year , carried by a number of international newspapers and magazines , show that royal dutch shell - among the major oil producers in nigeria - have infiltrated key nigerian ministries and have been using links to us officials to gain information on rival oil companies in the country , and the movements and objectives of militants in the niger delta region .
shell 's level of penetration into the governmental structure of nigeria - one of the world 's largest oil exporters - have given the company access to politicians and decision-makers at the highest level , providing it with insider knowledge of all movements and negotiations within those ministries .
according to dr. heinz jockers , a nigeria expert and a member of the eu election observation mission to nigeria , shell has personnel in the finance , interior , national planning , defense , environment , energy and foreign affairs ministries as well as influence over a number of presidential advisers , parliamentarians , governors , and high-ranked tribal rulers .
high level infiltration in major ministeries and oil-producing states " shell operatives - although they are unofficially employed by the company - have infiltrated the majority of the most important ministries in the nigerian government , " jockers told deutsche welle .
" they will of course also have their people in the ministries of the main oil-producing states . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell used nigerian sources to help secure its interests jockers said that the main aim of the shell operatives would be to gain information on everything which could in one way or the other affect the company 's business .
" areas of interest for these people would be the position of other competitors , be it companies or countries ; their offers regarding oil deals in nigeria , the pricing scale for oil in the country , and the level of governmental support for security , " he said .
the leaked cables show that shell had obtained information that nigeria had invited bids for oil concessions from china and was concerned at the possibility of increased competition from the people 's republic .
they also show that shell executives requested confirmation from us officials on russian gas giant gazprom 's interest in nigeria after information was obtained from ministerial channels .
jockers added that the practice of infiltration was so widespread that it is highly likely that other large companies have embedded personnel in governmental offices as this was the only way that advantages in business could be gained in nigeria .
" these could include : julius berger , chevron , hochtief , siemens , peugeot , haliburton , and mercedes , " he said .
" you have to remember : nigeria is a chaotic and highly corrupt country .
to do business there , you have to play the game . "
shell contacted us officials over delta militant threat bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell wanted us help with getting information on militants ann pickard , shell 's top executive in nigeria , was also revealed to have spoken to us officials in 2008 about the threat of militants in the niger delta which had , at its peak in 2006 , shut down a quarter of nigeria 's oil output .
an amnesty in 2009 ended the acts of sabotage being carried out on vulnerable pipelines and platforms , such as shell 's soku gas facility which had been the target of militant rocket attacks at the height of the so-called oil war .
" shell had been the main target of attacks by militants since the early 1990s , " heinrich bergstresser , a nigeria expert at the german institute of global and area studies -lrb- giga -rrb- in hamburg , told deutsche welle .
" the sabotages and attacks on shell 's installations , among others , were and are executed not just by militants but also orchestrated by complicit agents within the oil companies .
they benefit from the attacks because these people are very often also in charge of managing the payment of compensation which offers the opportunity to keep certain amounts of the payment for themselves . "
the cable dispatches from 2008 showed that shell 's pickard had contacted the us consulate in lagos with an offer to share " intelligence " on militant activity in exchange for information on a shipment of surface-to-air missiles which had allegedly been destined for nigerian militant groups in the delta region .
cables hint at shell 's involvement with local godfathers the cables describe how pickard was also unconvinced that a certain governor in the delta region " lacked the connections among rivers state militant leaders to successfully coopt them as the governors in delta and bayelsa states have done with militants in their states , " and that she believed the clash between the military and militants was " a proxy war for ongoing disputes " between rival governors .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : playing both sides in the delta struggle is a dangerous game this section of the cable transcripts hints at the possibility that shell has been attempting to use its influence to control local leaders , a comlicated and dangerous practice according to heinrich bergstresser .
" shell is playing with fire if it has or had any connection with the governors and militants , " he said .
" on the one hand , the oil companies can not control the governors but on the other hand they can try to persuade them to act in favor of the companies and in their own interest .
i am sure that they are paying certain amounts to the governors but that does not guarantee anything . "
bergstresser added that very often the oil companies find themselves caught between a rock and a hard place .
" the militias have emancipated themselves from their political godfathers and have started their own business of attacks and kidnappings so the oil companies find themselves sandwiched between profit-making , being threatened by militias , and keeping very close relationships with the federal government . "
author : nick amies editor : rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de illegal arms shipments to nigeria raise stakes ahead of 2011 elections general elections in nigeria are still several months away , but tensions are rising with memories still fresh of the 2007 poll which saw widespread allegations of corruption , voter fraud and violence .
-lrb- 01.12.2010 -rrb- biafra war anniversary highlights nigeria ’ s uncertain future " biafra " was the taunt german children used for skinny kids in the late 60s - the term was synonymous with starvation .
it is now 40 years since the end of the biafra war , and nigeria 's future still hangs in the balance .
-lrb- 15.01.2010 -rrb- shell settles lawsuit over killing of nigerian activists european oil giant royal dutch shell has agreed to pay $ 15.5 million -lrb- 11.2 million euros -rrb- to the families of six nigerian activists executed in 1995 but has refused to accept any liability for the violence .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
revolution calling women have played a crucial role in the arab uprisings , using the internet to spread the message .
watch the video security concerns there is a growing connection between security and natural resources .
listen to the interview podcast series life without the arts would be a lot less colorful , but guides like lukas help experience the arts .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 13.12.2010 oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eurozone states have to stop spending money they do n't have and start to cut debt the oecd urged eurozone states to start cutting down their debt loads and correct economic imbalances as soon as possible .
its chief economist gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds , calling them a " good idea " . the organization for economic co-operation and development -lrb- oecd -rrb- warned the 16 eurozone member states on monday that they need to start cutting their heavy debt loads and adopt tough measures to correct economic imbalances . the oecd also urged them to install a permanent crisis resolution mechanism which would force nations to carry out reforms in order to receive aid .
in its latest survey , the oecd predicted the eurozone 's economy would grow by 1.7 percent this year before accelerating to 2 percent in 2011 .
and although the oecd said the eurozone enjoyed a " gradual and sustained recovery " from last year 's steep recession , it also predicted that the pace of recovery would likely be muted .
eurozone states should begin to cut debts by 2011 the latest " fiscal consolidation is the immediate priority to stabilize the public finances and should begin by 2011 at the latest in all countries , " the oecd said in a statement .
oecd chief economist pier carlo padoan acknowledged that it took economists like him too long to understand the underlying reasons for the euro crisis .
" we economists have to plead guilty to that because we now discovered that while looking at -lrb- the -rrb- fiscal -lrb- situation -rrb- that needs to be looked at , we neglected other elements that now we know prove to be extremely important , " he said .
the crisis was caused by an economic imbalance , which had always existed in europe , he added .
the common currency only served to exacerbate that fact .
according to daniel gros , head of the center for european policy studies , one has to go back about 20 years to find the root of the current crisis .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms " will boost growth , said padoan " the problems we have been experiencing at the european periphery go back to german reunification .
at that time , germany experienced a construction and consumption boom which led to a rise in interest rates , while the rest of europe was moving in the opposite direction , " he said .
" beginning in 1995 , it was germany that had to watch its finances while other nations , thanks to the global credit boom , were spending more freely .
now the tables are turning again . "
the massive public debt of practically all of the oecd 's member states , is one of the main problems , said chief economist padoan .
" the first , best solution for countries is strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms to boost growth .
we think this is the way forward . "
financial markets may not grant greece enough time to implement reforms however , eurozone states appear to be moving in the right direction .
" the reforms we are currently witnessing in greece and elsewhere will take effect at some point , " said gros .
" the question we 're asking right now is whether the financial markets will give those countries the time they need to implement the reforms .
germany had enough time .
greece may possibly not . "
this is a scenario no one wants to imagine .
oecd chief economist padoan gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds .
" imagining that there is a european dimension to financial markets , including bond markets , is a good idea , " he said .
author : christoph hasselbach -lrb- db / sst / dpa / afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland bailout reignites fears about the future of the euro germany has seen a number of its own currencies come and go : the deutschmark , the reichsmark and , before that , the mark .
now some analysts are grumbling that the euro may be on its way out too .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- debt crisis exposes the euro 's flaws but divorce is not an option like marriage partners , eurozone nations fight about money .
germany grumbles about paying for the profligacy of others , but pays , since sticking together is the lesser of evils , says die zeit 's josef joffe .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- eurogroup finance ministers agree details of euro safety net eurozone finance ministers have signed off on a 500-billion-euro safety fund to stave off future crises within the single currency zone .
the announcement comes amid concerns over the strength and stability of the euro .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
europe 's borders african refugees flee unrest and arrive on island of malta with hopes for a better life .
watch the video art glass art has been made on the island of murano for centuries , but it still has an exciting future .
watch the video nuclear energy politicians in nuclear giant france decry germany 's decision to abandon the technology .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
all i want for christmas is ... -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de christmas -pipe- 13.12.2010 all i want for christmas is ... großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children have left instructions for christmas gift-givers for over a century toothpaste may seem like an unusual item on a christmas wish list - but over a century ago , it was n't so strange .
an exhibition in dortmund unveils the touching and sometimes comical history of holiday wish lists . in some countries , christmas presents are exchanged on the morning of december 25 , while most europeans give gifts on the evening of the 24th .
no matter when they 're unwrapped , it 's hard to imagine christmas without presents . the tradition , however , is relatively new .
it was n't until the end of the 19th century that gift-giving was associated with christmas in germany .
before that , st. nicholas brought presents to well-behaved children on december 6 . with the advent of gifts , it was only inevitable that children would help the givers - real and imagined - out with wish lists . " the development of the christmas gift-giving tradition mainly had to do with the fact that more presents and toys were available as a result of industrialization , " historian isolde parussel told deutsche welle . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a christmas gift table may have looked like this in the 19th century of course , not everyone could afford the new toys , but that did n't keep children from writing out their wishes . old toys made just like new parussel is behind the exhibition " … bring us many nice things , " which is currently on show at the museum of art and cultural history in the western german city of dortmund .
over 100 holiday wish lists are on display , along with decorative gift tables , toys and festive christmas trees from the past century . most of the items were collected from private households following a request published in german newspapers . some of the wish lists are addressed to st. nicholas or santa claus , but many were written to the ' christkind ' - a sprite-like child , usually depicted with blond hair and angelic wings . in one list from 1899 , a young girl hoped for " a dress for -lsb- my doll -rsb- fraenzchen , a set of colored pencils , a sailor 's hat for me " but also " calling cards and a tube of calodont tooth paste . "
at the end of the 19th century , tooth paste in tubes was extremely modern - something extraordinary even for a little girl . as the end of the girl 's letter reveals , gifts were n't necessarily expected to be new .
" and then , dear christkind , -lsb- my dolls -rsb- siegfried and dori need to be taken to the hospital .
dori 's hair is growing very sparsely on her head and her limbs are very droopy .
both of these things need to be fixed , " wrote the girl . despite having to organize presents for so many children , the christkind occasionally found time to write back .
one such letter - composed on a typewriter and dated christmas eve , 1911 - is included in the exhibition ; parussel suspects , of course , that it was written by the parents .
" the angels say that you and -lsb- your sister -rsb- staenzerl were n't very good doll mothers this year , " read the letter : " under these circumstances , entrusting you with a real baby seems to be too much of a responsibility . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : isolde parussel curated the dortmund exhibition apparently , the girls had wished for a sibling - a gift their parents apparently were n't yet willing to provide . some things do n't change the letters and lists offer insights into the everyday lives of various generations .
children from the post-world war ii generation wanted nothing more than a warm hat or a notebook for school .
one short generation later , one girl asked for a knee-length skirt , according to the trend of the time . the most recent wish list in the collection is from 2008 .
jascha from dortmund had cut out pictures from catalogues - complete with price tags - to illustrate his list , which mainly consisted of electronics . jascha 's wishes are expensive , but , when taking the standard of living into account , they 're not necessarily more valuable than the things children asked for a century ago , said parussel . " you ca n't necessarily say that this child is just focused on consumption , " she said .
he put just as much effort into his wish list , writing it neatly and decorating it with colored pencils . " author : sola huelsewig -lrb- kjb -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de toys r ' scarce in german stores toy makers and retailers in germany could n't be happier : christmas shoppers appear to have a near insatiable appetite for toys .
products from traditional european toymakers like lego and playmobil are in high demand .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- racism controversy dampens holland 's sinterklaas tradition children across europe eagerly await the arrival of st. nicholas on december 6 .
but in holland , the tradition has racist implications that the dutch are n't quite willing to give up .
-lrb- 05.12.2010 -rrb- ' dear christkind ' : a german post office answers christmas letters in the small town of engelskirchen , thousands of letters from around the world arrive at a seasonal christmas post office , all addressed to one person .
for over 20 years , postal workers have written back .
-lrb- 24.12.2009 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
feature scorpions on tour a legendary rock band is calling it quits and dw joins them on their final tour .
recent picture galleries bayreuth and the wagner family the color master : photos by joel sternfeld summer sunglasses car fetish exhibition berlin fashion week day of the kiss ai weiwei , the photographer podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
meet story-teller and guitarist max prosa ' german pop ' homepage podcast series traveling on a budget ?
dw presents shoestring guides to european cities .
get all the episodes subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.12.2010 stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is another winter of discontent for stuttgart having fired jens keller after only 60 days in charge , stuttgart are rolling the dice again with bruno labbadia , formerly of leverkusen and hamburg .
but can he handle the toughest job in german football ? what do jogi loew , ralf rangnick , matthias sammer , giovanni trapattoni and christian gross have in common ?
if you said that they are all successful coaches who have been fired by stuttgart , you 'd be right .
that might be some small consolation to jens keller , who was axed on sunday after stuttgart suffered an unlucky 2-1 loss to hanover .
that defeat left only moenchengladbach between stuttgart and the very bottom of the table .
" we 're stuck deep in the muck , " stuttgart 's technical director , fredi bobic , said after the hanover disappointment .
" i 've got my thoughts about how we 're going to get out of it . "
bobic declined to elaborate on those mental processes , but stuttgart fans at least have a name and a face to pin to them .
the question is : does bruno labbadia - along with gross and keller , stuttgart 's third coach this season - stand a chance at the hardest club in the league to lead ?
plus and minuses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bruno labbadia is going to have to put his thinking cap on bobic may be counting on what might be called the “ labbadia effect . ”
at each of his previous two teams , big bruno 's charges responded well to his tactical instructions and got off to good starts .
a series of wins such as labbadia engineered at leverkusen and hamburg in 2008 and 2009 respectively would probably be enough for stuttgart , whose only goal right now is to avoid relegation .
that 's not out of the question .
stuttgart , who are currently on 12 points , have been on the losing end of a number of controversial refereeing decisions this season and could argue that their current position in the table does n't accurately reflect their quality .
on the other hand , no one would make the case that this is a good team .
the squad has been unable to compensate for the departures of sami khedira and jens lehmann , veteran star mauro camoranesi has spent more time on his tuchus than on the turf , and chemistry between younger and older players is rumored to be quite poor .
that does n't play to labbadia 's strengths .
at both leverkusen and hamburg , he was criticized for being unapproachable and arrogant , and there were unconfirmed rumors about romantic liaisons , or attempts at such , between him and players ' wives .
whatever the truth may be , both teams suffered drastic downward spirals after their hot starts with him in charge , and he departed after less than a year in charge .
now he 's sitting on a true powder keg , a team whose supporters have in the past besieged their own team bus when they 've been disappointed by results .
labbadia 's first task is to win over those fans , and one thing is clear : it ai n't gonna be easy .
the final step toward relegation ?
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stuttgart fans wish the club had n't sold mario gomez if the new coach had any illusions about what he was getting himself into , he needed only surf briefly on the internet to dispel them .
" why labbadia , " one supporter asked on the online forum of the mass circulation bild newspaper .
" he 'll be gone quicker than he can settle on a starting 11 . "
indeed , the overarching tone of the blogosphere was sarcasm .
" the best management in the league has pulled off another brilliant move and hired a much heralded coach guaranteed to bring stability and continuity to the club , " wrote a user on the football forum of die welt newspaper .
" it looks as if stuttgart have finally committed themselves to getting relegated . "
that comment was typical of many others in blaming management for the team 's current misery .
in particular , supporters are unhappy at the club 's penchant for selling stars .
along with khedira , mario gomez and kevin kuranyi are two of the prominent and popular players stuttgart have flogged off in recent years .
if labbadia does n't pan out quickly , stuttgart could be in the hunt for a dubious record - the greatest number of coaches employed by any one club in a single season .
and if bruno does have to go , the odds are that bobic and others within stuttgart 's management will be going with him .
author : jefferson chase editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hanover hit new high with win over struggling stuttgart hanover continued to surpass expectations , rising to second in the standings with a 2-1 win over beleaguered stuttgart .
now , just third from bottom , stuttgart has decided to dump its coach , jens keller .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- ex-amateur coaches at stuttgart , cologne face uphill battle in jens keller and frank schaefer respectively , stuttgart and cologne hope that an in-house promotion will turn the tide .
but former amateur coaches seldom have long-term success in the bundesliga .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- stuttgart need a reality check as gross takes the fall stuttgart packed off its third coach in three seasons when christian gross was shown the door after a woeful start to the season .
but the club 's position is unlikely to improve until deeper problems are resolved .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- 9799 dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live soundscape 100 soundscape 100 : the latest from ermany 's top 100 ... and more !
listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
berlusconi warns ousting him would be ' political folly ' -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de elections -pipe- 13.12.2010 berlusconi warns ousting him would be ' political folly ' großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : berlusconi is up against a failed coalition , a garbage crisis and several alleged sex scandals italian prime minister silvio berlusconi has urged lawmakers not to oust him in a no-confidence vote on tuesday .
the prime minister said the country 's economic stability depended on him surviving the vote . prime minister silvio berlusconi on monday addressed the italian upper house ahead of a crucial no-confidence vote on tuesday .
he told lawmakers it would be " political folly " to let his government collapse .
" our country is being shaken by serious tensions that concern the heart of the economic system - the financial credibility of the state , " berlusconi said .
" the last thing italy needs is a political crisis , " he added , appealing to senators to be " politically responsible " and renew confidence in him and his government .
seeking new allies bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the naples garbage crisis has added to public discontent berlusconi said the country 's economic stability depended on him surviving the vote .
he also offered to widen his ruling coalition to include two centrist parties that currently oppose him .
" i want to reconstitute the alliance of all the moderate forces that were the origin of our political engagement , " he said .
lawmakers in both the upper house senate and the lower house chamber of deputies are to vote on tuesday in a motion presented by the center-left opposition .
the embattled leader has pledged early elections if he loses the vote , which seems to be on a knife 's edge in the lower house .
both lawmakers and population divided backed by allies in the anti-immigration northern league , berlusconi still enjoys support in the senate but lost his automatic majority in the lower house when former coalition partner gianfranco fini broke up the government following a string of scandals involving the premier .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : fini turned from close ally to bitter political opponent a defeat for the government in either would force berlusconi to resign , just two-and-a-half years into his term - which is only due to expire in 2013 .
with a slew of sex scandals , a paralyzed economy , nation-wide protests , and his own loyal backers turning against him , berlusconi ’ s base of support has eroded .
his failure to deal with the garbage crisis in naples has also cost him dearly in popular opinion .
tens of thousands took to the streets of rome on saturday in marches organized by the center-left opposition democratic party -lrb- pd -rrb- under the slogan " the italy that wants to change . "
on sunday , thousands rallied in the capital in support of the premier .
ahead of tuesday 's vote , an investigation has also been launched after widespread media allegations that the prime minister 's camp has been trying to buy the votes of undecided parliamentarians .
author : andreas illmer -lrb- afp , ap -rrb- editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ' i will survive ' says berlusconi , despite protests in rome tens of thousands took to the streets of rome on saturday to protest against prime minister silvio berlusconi 's government ahead of a no-confidence motion in parliament .
berlusconi said he was confident of victory .
-lrb- 11.12.2010 -rrb- pro-berlusconi rallies held across italy after tens of thousands of italians took to the streets of rome in protest of prime minister silvio berlusconi on saturday , supporters of the embattled leader rallied on sunday ahead of an upcoming confidence vote .
-lrb- 12.12.2010 -rrb- berlusconi agrees to seek confidence vote - after budget debate italian prime minister silvio berlusconi has yielded to calls for a no-confidence vote , but only after crucial budget plans have been agreed .
the move is seen as a bid by the premier to regain the political initiative .
-lrb- 14.11.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
italy italy 's prime minister has again expressed his disapproval of nato 's mission in libya .
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio russia russia 's defense minister comes under fire from the top over gaps in the country 's armaments .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
successful european tech startups continue to lag behind -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 successful european tech startups continue to lag behind großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : european startups still lag behind us counterparts after a series of recent european tech conferences , silicon valley continues to dominate .
tech venture capital on this side of the atlantic still remains relatively small , due to bureaucracy , language problems . it was hard to ignore the dominance of silicon valley at this year 's leweb tech conference last week in paris - nearly all the speakers and featured guests were from california 's famed tech hub .
while european innovation is picking up speed , it is starting from a long way behind the american startup scene - participants at the conference blamed over-cautious investors and misguided government spending .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : european venture capitalists have n't been investing in tech startups as long as they have been in silicon valley a vicious cycle in europe adventurous investors tend to be entrepreneurs themselves , so , where silicon valley has created a virtuous cycle , europe is faced with a chicken-and-egg situation : there 's not enough money because there are not enough start-ups , and there are not enough start-ups because there 's not enough money .
" i know quite a few companies that moved to the valley just because they found capital there , " said sarik weber , a german entrepreneur who runs the start-up incubator programme hanse ventures in hamburg .
his company provides capital and advice to new businesses .
" the whole silicon valley ecosystem is based on 40 to 50 years of entrepreneurs building their companies doing exits very successfully and then reinvesting this money back into the ecosystem , " he added . " this is what really fosters the european startup scene .
when we get great exits like skype or others , these people reinvest their money into european start-ups and we have to create that . "
while european governments spend more on research and development than their american and japanese counterparts , experts say that tax incentives and subsidies are not doing anything to encourage private-sector investors .
" the state is doing its job , but do the individual investors have enough confidence to invest more in research and development ? " said pierre monhen , who teaches innovation policy at the united nations university in maastricht , the netherlands .
" there is a more cautious attitude in europe than in the us . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some entrepeneurs claim that with the proper political direction , european startups could do much better poor european political decisions hinder innovation , entrepeneurs say but several entrepreneurs at leweb maintained that it is a political problem , and less of a problem of entrepeneurship . european governments , and the european union itself , may be spending money , but it is not very effective .
johan staeul von holstein , who has most recently founded mycube , a social networking startup based in singapore , thinks innovation could be encouraged with judicious tax reforms .
" there 's as much capital as you can possibly imagine around , " he said .
" it 's just that the wrong people are sitting on the capital .
politicians need to understand the value of entrepreneurship and innovation and growth , and by giving huge tax benefits to entrepreneurs making their own decisions and putting large amounts of money in the hands of entrepreneurs : that would change the whole system in 24 hours . "
a more serious problem is cultural attitudes and bad ideas , according to tariq krim , one of europe 's most successful entrepreneurs .
he set up jolicloud , a company that makes a linux-based operating system which can be installed on any computer .
he adds that spending on innovation is misguided , and tends to go to a few large companies rather than lots of small ones .
in 2008 , france , for example , invested 99 million euros -lrb- $ 131 million -rrb- in a new search engine called quearo , which was supposed to be a european answer to google .
since then , essentially nothing has happened and the project appears to be dead .
" they should have rather give money to 20 start ups , " krim said .
“ it has to be a competitive state about ideas . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many european startups , like slense , limit themselves to only a few languages , like english - making the european market a lot smaller .
heterogeneous language , culture slow european tech startups but beyond poor investment , the single european market may have simplified the movement of labor and money , but it has not created a single customer base .
freddy mini , who runs netvibes , a start-up that creates personalised dashboards on the web , pointed out that american companies automatically have a leg up , as they have a much more culturally and linguistically homogenous employment and customer base than their european counterparts .
in other words , he noted , european companies have to hire specialists for each corner of the continent .
" the first advice is forget your culture - get to the culture of the country where you live and hire people from the ground , " he said .
author : molly guinness , paris editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de niche search engines pick needles out of web haystacks several new search engines focus on segments of the web , like social networking or microblogging sites .
they are not looking to challenge google , but they are letting users search places that google ca n't reach .
-lrb- 22.09.2010 -rrb- swedish start-up offers new micro-donation system flattr lets readers donate by clicking buttons on blogs and other websites .
some sites have reported income of over 1,000 euros as a result of the new company .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- ‘ hubs ’ offer like-minded businesses a shared home as more people start businesses from home with nothing but a laptop , the rapidly growing ' hub ' network aims to create a mutually beneficial work environment that provides some of the perks of working for a larger firm .
-lrb- 21.07.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for iran nuclear talks to continue despite minister firing -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 13.12.2010 germany calls for iran nuclear talks to continue despite minister firing großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran has only just resumed nuclear talks with the 5 + 1 group iran 's foreign minister has been dismissed by president mahmoud ahmadinejad shortly after the country resumed talks with the west over its nuclear program , leading germany to urge iran to continue in the talks . german foreign minister guido westerwelle called on iran to continue negotiations with world powers over its contentious nuclear activities despite the firing of his iranian counterpart on monday .
" we trust that the talks that have just begun in geneva will continue and that different political line-ups will not lead to an interruption or a hesitation at those talks , " westerwelle said ahead of a regular eu foreign ministers meeting in brussels .
germany and the five permanent members of the united nations security council resumed talks with iran in the swiss city last week after a 14-month hiatus .
the so-called 5 + 1 group and iran agreed to meet again in istanbul in january .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mottaki was not part of iran 's negotiating team in geneva iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad dismissed his foreign minister manouchehr mottaki , a career diplomat in the office since august 2005 .
the iranian government offered no public explanation of the firing .
while mottaki has been staunch defender of iran 's nuclear program and ahmadinejad , the two men reportedly had differences in policy views over the past few months .
ahmadinejad named ali-akbar salehi , iran 's nuclear energy chief , as mottaki 's interim replacement .
neither mottaki nor salehi was part of the geneva negotiating team , which was headed by the head of the supreme national security council , saeid jalili .
iran says its nuclear enrichment program is peaceful , but the west fears it is eventually planning to build a nuclear bomb .
the un security council has imposed several rounds of sanctions on iran because of the enrichment .
author : andrew bowen -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de no real breakthrough as 5 + 1 talks on iran end nuclear talks between the 5 + 1 group and iran have ended in geneva with little sign of progress .
although the two sides have agreed to meet again , the sticking point is the demand for iran to suspend uranium enrichment .
-lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- defiant iran says nuclear position is ' non-negotiable ' diplomats from several world powers met with iran on monday to discuss its nuclear program .
before the meeting , the 5 + 1 team said it would hold firm to its position that iran should stop enriching uranium .
-lrb- 06.12.2010 -rrb- iran agrees to resume negotiations as eu tightens sanctions european foreign ministers have approved tighter sanctions on iran .
tehran has condemned the measures but at the same time signalled it was willing to resume negotiations over its nuclear program .
-lrb- 26.07.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft - das wissenschaftsmagazin we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
victims of abuse in children 's homes ' betrayed ' by compensation proposal -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 05.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 13.12.2010 victims of abuse in children 's homes ' betrayed ' by compensation proposal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many victims feel betrayed by the round table 's results a panel called to investigate the systematic maltreatment of thousands of juveniles in children 's homes in the 1950s and 1960s has recommended the payment of compensation .
but many victims feel betrayed . an extra-parliamentary panel in berlin on monday presented the results of two years of round-table negotiations on how to compensate tens of thousands of former children and youths for the systematic wrongdoings they had to endure at the hands of educators in west germany 's children 's homes in the 1950s and 1960s .
the panel recommended that victims who suffered torture , maltreatment and humiliation receive compensation from a 120-million-euro -lrb- $ 160 million -rrb- fund financed by the german government , federal states and churches .
the payments are to be used for pension funds , for treatment of subsequent damages or as rent assistance .
" children in children 's homes were never able to argue for their rights by themselves , " said antje vollmer , head of the round-table group of politicians , church representatives and victims .
" this is why they are still entitled to financial compensation . " the german parliament bundestag and the federal states ' parliaments have yet to decide on the round table 's proposals , but georg gorissen , the representative of the federal government and the western german federal states , said they were in favor of the compensation funds .
the catholic and the protestant church announced they would pay their share of the funds .
30,000 could make use of the funds twenty million euros are planned for pension payments since a lot of children had to start working at the age of 14 , but the children 's homes declined to pay into their pension funds .
another 100 million euros should go towards the treating the consequences of the abuse .
according to recent investigations , about 30,000 people are eligible for compensation .
so far , around 2,500 former victims have come forward .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " we did n't achieve all our goals , but we did achieve a lot , " said wiegand hans-siegfried wiegand , one of the more prominent victims participating in the round table negotiations , said that not all demands had been met .
victims groups had been aiming for a monthly lump-sum payment of 300 euros or a single payment of around 50,000 euros .
" we did n't achieve all of our goals , but we did achieve a lot , " wiegand said .
compensation is a " farce " the chairwoman of the association of former children 's homes residents , monika tschapek-guentner called the compensation funds a " farce " and dismissed case-to-case examinations .
tschapek-guentner is still demanding lump-sum payments to all victims .
the 120-million-euro fund is an " outrage , " amounting to between just 2,000-4,000 euros for each victim .
" that is really humiliating , " she said .
" that 's an attempt to drop the issue with minimum compensation . "
the association advised victims to claim money from the funds .
but tschapek-guentner is planning to take the case further .
" i will go as far as the european court of justice , " she said .
another member of the round-table , juergen beverfoerden , added that victims had been under a lot of pressure at the talks .
" there was the threat that we wo n't get anything if we do n't agree to the final report , " he said .
antje vollmer rebuffed the accusations . justice minister sabine leutheusser-schnarrenberger said that " earmarked funds are an appropriate reaction to individual injustice , " but said she also understood that expectations of victims might have been higher .
the head of the catholic church in germany , robert zollitsch and his protestant counterpart , nikolaus schneider , both advocated a quick and unbureaucratic establishment of the fund .
up to 800,000 children lived in german children 's homes between 1949 and 1975 , run by the government as well as by churches .
author : sarah steffen -lrb- epd , ap , kna , afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany launches campaign for sexual abuse victims to speak out in response to the child abuse scandal in the catholic church , thousands of german victims are being targeted by a new campaign that aims to end their silent suffering .
the message is that talking helps .
-lrb- 21.09.2010 -rrb- cases of sex abuse emerge from former east germany following the scandals of child sex abuse in the roman catholic church and private schools in western germany , new revelations have now emerged about abuse in former communist east germany .
-lrb- 01.04.2010 -rrb- germany urges catholic church to come clean on child abuse the german government has called on the catholic church to play a proactive role in clarifying the widening allegations of clerical sex abuse at catholic schools throughout the country .
-lrb- 21.02.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ' too little , too late ' -lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- victims of abuse set to receive compensation -lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press opinion : wikileaks ' latest release is a diplomatic waterloo africa -pipe- 13.12.2010 wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell gained information on all aspects of nigeria 's oil business the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria . leaked us diplomatic cables from last year , carried by a number of international newspapers and magazines , show that royal dutch shell - among the major oil producers in nigeria - have infiltrated key nigerian ministries and have been using links to us officials to gain information on rival oil companies in the country , and the movements and objectives of militants in the niger delta region .
shell 's level of penetration into the governmental structure of nigeria - one of the world 's largest oil exporters - have given the company access to politicians and decision-makers at the highest level , providing it with insider knowledge of all movements and negotiations within those ministries .
according to dr. heinz jockers , a nigeria expert and a member of the eu election observation mission to nigeria , shell has personnel in the finance , interior , national planning , defense , environment , energy and foreign affairs ministries as well as influence over a number of presidential advisers , parliamentarians , governors , and high-ranked tribal rulers .
high level infiltration in major ministeries and oil-producing states " shell operatives - although they are unofficially employed by the company - have infiltrated the majority of the most important ministries in the nigerian government , " jockers told deutsche welle .
" they will of course also have their people in the ministries of the main oil-producing states . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell used nigerian sources to help secure its interests jockers said that the main aim of the shell operatives would be to gain information on everything which could in one way or the other affect the company 's business .
" areas of interest for these people would be the position of other competitors , be it companies or countries ; their offers regarding oil deals in nigeria , the pricing scale for oil in the country , and the level of governmental support for security , " he said .
the leaked cables show that shell had obtained information that nigeria had invited bids for oil concessions from china and was concerned at the possibility of increased competition from the people 's republic .
they also show that shell executives requested confirmation from us officials on russian gas giant gazprom 's interest in nigeria after information was obtained from ministerial channels .
jockers added that the practice of infiltration was so widespread that it is highly likely that other large companies have embedded personnel in governmental offices as this was the only way that advantages in business could be gained in nigeria .
" these could include : julius berger , chevron , hochtief , siemens , peugeot , haliburton , and mercedes , " he said .
" you have to remember : nigeria is a chaotic and highly corrupt country .
to do business there , you have to play the game . "
shell contacted us officials over delta militant threat bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell wanted us help with getting information on militants ann pickard , shell 's top executive in nigeria , was also revealed to have spoken to us officials in 2008 about the threat of militants in the niger delta which had , at its peak in 2006 , shut down a quarter of nigeria 's oil output .
an amnesty in 2009 ended the acts of sabotage being carried out on vulnerable pipelines and platforms , such as shell 's soku gas facility which had been the target of militant rocket attacks at the height of the so-called oil war .
" shell had been the main target of attacks by militants since the early 1990s , " heinrich bergstresser , a nigeria expert at the german institute of global and area studies -lrb- giga -rrb- in hamburg , told deutsche welle .
" the sabotages and attacks on shell 's installations , among others , were and are executed not just by militants but also orchestrated by complicit agents within the oil companies .
they benefit from the attacks because these people are very often also in charge of managing the payment of compensation which offers the opportunity to keep certain amounts of the payment for themselves . "
the cable dispatches from 2008 showed that shell 's pickard had contacted the us consulate in lagos with an offer to share " intelligence " on militant activity in exchange for information on a shipment of surface-to-air missiles which had allegedly been destined for nigerian militant groups in the delta region .
cables hint at shell 's involvement with local godfathers the cables describe how pickard was also unconvinced that a certain governor in the delta region " lacked the connections among rivers state militant leaders to successfully coopt them as the governors in delta and bayelsa states have done with militants in their states , " and that she believed the clash between the military and militants was " a proxy war for ongoing disputes " between rival governors .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : playing both sides in the delta struggle is a dangerous game this section of the cable transcripts hints at the possibility that shell has been attempting to use its influence to control local leaders , a comlicated and dangerous practice according to heinrich bergstresser .
" shell is playing with fire if it has or had any connection with the governors and militants , " he said .
" on the one hand , the oil companies can not control the governors but on the other hand they can try to persuade them to act in favor of the companies and in their own interest .
i am sure that they are paying certain amounts to the governors but that does not guarantee anything . "
bergstresser added that very often the oil companies find themselves caught between a rock and a hard place .
" the militias have emancipated themselves from their political godfathers and have started their own business of attacks and kidnappings so the oil companies find themselves sandwiched between profit-making , being threatened by militias , and keeping very close relationships with the federal government . "
author : nick amies editor : rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de illegal arms shipments to nigeria raise stakes ahead of 2011 elections general elections in nigeria are still several months away , but tensions are rising with memories still fresh of the 2007 poll which saw widespread allegations of corruption , voter fraud and violence .
-lrb- 01.12.2010 -rrb- biafra war anniversary highlights nigeria ’ s uncertain future " biafra " was the taunt german children used for skinny kids in the late 60s - the term was synonymous with starvation .
it is now 40 years since the end of the biafra war , and nigeria 's future still hangs in the balance .
-lrb- 15.01.2010 -rrb- shell settles lawsuit over killing of nigerian activists european oil giant royal dutch shell has agreed to pay $ 15.5 million -lrb- 11.2 million euros -rrb- to the families of six nigerian activists executed in 1995 but has refused to accept any liability for the violence .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
south asia regional cooperation is making little progress in the strategically important region .
listen to the report in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a berlin designer prompts thought about waste by turning trash , like used teabags , into treasures .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes climate change check out deutsche welle 's multimedia coverage of people and projects combating climate change .
the global ideas page learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
prime minister thaci claims victory in kosovo 's election -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de elections -pipe- 13.12.2010 prime minister thaci claims victory in kosovo 's election großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some 29 parties and groups were contesting 120 seats an exit poll gives prime minister hashim thaci 's democratic party of kosovo -lrb- pdk -rrb- a solid lead in sunday 's snap elections .
however , his closest rival , pristina mayor isa mustafa , has not yet conceded defeat . prime minister hashim thaci 's democratic party of kosovo -lrb- pdk -rrb- has claimed victory in sunday 's election , with an exit poll showing his party well ahead . official results wo n't be released until monday afternoon , but according to the poll - conducted by the gani bobi agency and based on interviews with 2,200 voters - the pdk received at least 31 percent of votes cast , ahead of pristina mayor isa mustafa 's democratic league of kosovo -lrb- ldk -rrb- , in second with 25 percent . " victory is ours , " thaci told supporters shortly before midnight .
" the elections were a referendum on the european future of kosovo . " citing its own exit poll based on a count of more than 60 percent of ballots cast , the ldk has insisted it is ahead in the vote . " -lsb- the exit poll -rsb- is not a final result .
the ldk is still leading at the kosovo level , " party spokesman arben gashi said .
sunday 's election was the first since kosovo declared independence from serbia nearly three years ago . some 1.6 million voters were eligible to cast their ballots to elect 120 members of parliament . campaign to end corruption bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mustafa promised to sweep away corruption mustafa had campaigned on an anti-corruption ticket , hoping to capitalize on growing disillusionment with the country 's poor economic standing . " we will give you a government ... which will root out corruption and boost the image and name of kosovo , " said mustafa in his final rally . a recent survey showed 73 percent of the population thought corruption had worsened under thaci , who has led the country since it declared independence in february 2008 .
with unemployment at nearly 50 percent , polls prior to sunday 's vote showed thaci 's pdk party at 30 percent - only 2 percent ahead of the ldk . thaci , a former guerrilla leader , addressed his final rally on friday with a pledge to dramatically increase the salaries of civil servants . " the decision to increase salaries is not an electoral promise .
it is a reality , " he told cheering supporters . elections were called when the ldk pulled out of the coalition government due to a constitutional dispute concerning its former leader fatmir sejdiu , also kosovo 's president until he stepped down in september . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a majority think corruption has worsened under thaci from guerrillas to politicians the pdk , which emerged from ethnic albanian guerrilla units that fought serbian forces in the late 1990s , has claimed that it is best placed to make kosovo a member of the european union as quickly as possible . the same claim is made by the ldk , which was founded by the late " father of the nation , " ibrahim rugova . also looking for a share of the power is the alliance for the future of kosovo -lrb- aak -rrb- , considered the third force in the country 's politics . the vetevendosje -lrb- self-determination -rrb- and fer -lrb- new spirit -rrb- parties , both taking part in the elections for the first time , aim to woo young disenchanted voters . unity test bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : participation of serbs in southern kosovo was seen as a test of multi-ethnic credentials in all , 29 parties and organizations fielded candidates for the 120-seat legislature , with 10 seats reserved for the serb minority and another 10 for other ethnic groups . many ethnic serbs boycotted the elections , with serbia , which does not recognize kosovo 's independence , urging them to stay away .
participation in the north , which is linked directly by road to serbia , was minimal . about 60 percent of the serb population left kosovo in 1999 , after nato bombings that forced serb troops out of the region . of the 120,000 serbs who remain , about half live in the south , and many of them were expected to take part in the ballot .
their involvement was seen as a crucial test of kosovo 's claim to be a multi-ethnic state . since declaring independence , kosovo has been recognized by 72 countries , including the united states and all but five of the eu 's 27 members . author : richard connor , gabriel borrud , martin kuebler -lrb- afp , dpa , reuters -rrb- editor : ben knight send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de serbian leader tadic says compromises possible over kosovo serbia says it 's ready for possible compromises with the european union over its breakaway former province of kosovo , which unilaterally declared independence in 2008 .
-lrb- 28.08.2010 -rrb- serbia says it will never recognize kosovo serbia has passed a resolution that it will never recognize kosovo 's independence .
last week , the internatinal court of justice ruled the 2008 declaration of independence to be in accordance with international law .
-lrb- 27.07.2010 -rrb- international court rules that kosovo independence is lawful the international court of justice in the hague has declared that kosovo 's independence is in line with international law .
the ruling is a blow to serbia but has been welcomed by germany and the us .
-lrb- 22.07.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic kosovo votes in first post-independence polls -lrb- 12.12.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
italy italy 's prime minister has again expressed his disapproval of nato 's mission in libya .
listen to the audio world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio russia russia 's defense minister comes under fire from the top over gaps in the country 's armaments .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
all i want for christmas is ... -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de christmas -pipe- 13.12.2010 all i want for christmas is ... großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children have left instructions for christmas gift-givers for over a century toothpaste may seem like an unusual item on a christmas wish list - but over a century ago , it was n't so strange .
an exhibition in dortmund unveils the touching and sometimes comical history of holiday wish lists . in some countries , christmas presents are exchanged on the morning of december 25 , while most europeans give gifts on the evening of the 24th .
no matter when they 're unwrapped , it 's hard to imagine christmas without presents . the tradition , however , is relatively new .
it was n't until the end of the 19th century that gift-giving was associated with christmas in germany .
before that , st. nicholas brought presents to well-behaved children on december 6 . with the advent of gifts , it was only inevitable that children would help the givers - real and imagined - out with wish lists . " the development of the christmas gift-giving tradition mainly had to do with the fact that more presents and toys were available as a result of industrialization , " historian isolde parussel told deutsche welle . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a christmas gift table may have looked like this in the 19th century of course , not everyone could afford the new toys , but that did n't keep children from writing out their wishes . old toys made just like new parussel is behind the exhibition " … bring us many nice things , " which is currently on show at the museum of art and cultural history in the western german city of dortmund .
over 100 holiday wish lists are on display , along with decorative gift tables , toys and festive christmas trees from the past century . most of the items were collected from private households following a request published in german newspapers . some of the wish lists are addressed to st. nicholas or santa claus , but many were written to the ' christkind ' - a sprite-like child , usually depicted with blond hair and angelic wings . in one list from 1899 , a young girl hoped for " a dress for -lsb- my doll -rsb- fraenzchen , a set of colored pencils , a sailor 's hat for me " but also " calling cards and a tube of calodont tooth paste . "
at the end of the 19th century , tooth paste in tubes was extremely modern - something extraordinary even for a little girl . as the end of the girl 's letter reveals , gifts were n't necessarily expected to be new .
" and then , dear christkind , -lsb- my dolls -rsb- siegfried and dori need to be taken to the hospital .
dori 's hair is growing very sparsely on her head and her limbs are very droopy .
both of these things need to be fixed , " wrote the girl . despite having to organize presents for so many children , the christkind occasionally found time to write back .
one such letter - composed on a typewriter and dated christmas eve , 1911 - is included in the exhibition ; parussel suspects , of course , that it was written by the parents .
" the angels say that you and -lsb- your sister -rsb- staenzerl were n't very good doll mothers this year , " read the letter : " under these circumstances , entrusting you with a real baby seems to be too much of a responsibility . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : isolde parussel curated the dortmund exhibition apparently , the girls had wished for a sibling - a gift their parents apparently were n't yet willing to provide . some things do n't change the letters and lists offer insights into the everyday lives of various generations .
children from the post-world war ii generation wanted nothing more than a warm hat or a notebook for school .
one short generation later , one girl asked for a knee-length skirt , according to the trend of the time . the most recent wish list in the collection is from 2008 .
jascha from dortmund had cut out pictures from catalogues - complete with price tags - to illustrate his list , which mainly consisted of electronics . jascha 's wishes are expensive , but , when taking the standard of living into account , they 're not necessarily more valuable than the things children asked for a century ago , said parussel . " you ca n't necessarily say that this child is just focused on consumption , " she said .
he put just as much effort into his wish list , writing it neatly and decorating it with colored pencils . " author : sola huelsewig -lrb- kjb -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de toys r ' scarce in german stores toy makers and retailers in germany could n't be happier : christmas shoppers appear to have a near insatiable appetite for toys .
products from traditional european toymakers like lego and playmobil are in high demand .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- racism controversy dampens holland 's sinterklaas tradition children across europe eagerly await the arrival of st. nicholas on december 6 .
but in holland , the tradition has racist implications that the dutch are n't quite willing to give up .
-lrb- 05.12.2010 -rrb- ' dear christkind ' : a german post office answers christmas letters in the small town of engelskirchen , thousands of letters from around the world arrive at a seasonal christmas post office , all addressed to one person .
for over 20 years , postal workers have written back .
-lrb- 24.12.2009 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
dw-tv meet exceptional women who have achieved success in male-dominated jobs .
dj smokin joe car designer juliane blasi architect zeynep fadillioglu chef annie féolde conductor inma shara podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 13.12.2010 oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eurozone states have to stop spending money they do n't have and start to cut debt the oecd urged eurozone states to start cutting down their debt loads and correct economic imbalances as soon as possible .
its chief economist gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds , calling them a " good idea " . the organization for economic co-operation and development -lrb- oecd -rrb- warned the 16 eurozone member states on monday that they need to start cutting their heavy debt loads and adopt tough measures to correct economic imbalances . the oecd also urged them to install a permanent crisis resolution mechanism which would force nations to carry out reforms in order to receive aid .
in its latest survey , the oecd predicted the eurozone 's economy would grow by 1.7 percent this year before accelerating to 2 percent in 2011 .
and although the oecd said the eurozone enjoyed a " gradual and sustained recovery " from last year 's steep recession , it also predicted that the pace of recovery would likely be muted .
eurozone states should begin to cut debts by 2011 the latest " fiscal consolidation is the immediate priority to stabilize the public finances and should begin by 2011 at the latest in all countries , " the oecd said in a statement .
oecd chief economist pier carlo padoan acknowledged that it took economists like him too long to understand the underlying reasons for the euro crisis .
" we economists have to plead guilty to that because we now discovered that while looking at -lrb- the -rrb- fiscal -lrb- situation -rrb- that needs to be looked at , we neglected other elements that now we know prove to be extremely important , " he said .
the crisis was caused by an economic imbalance , which had always existed in europe , he added .
the common currency only served to exacerbate that fact .
according to daniel gros , head of the center for european policy studies , one has to go back about 20 years to find the root of the current crisis .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms " will boost growth , said padoan " the problems we have been experiencing at the european periphery go back to german reunification .
at that time , germany experienced a construction and consumption boom which led to a rise in interest rates , while the rest of europe was moving in the opposite direction , " he said .
" beginning in 1995 , it was germany that had to watch its finances while other nations , thanks to the global credit boom , were spending more freely .
now the tables are turning again . "
the massive public debt of practically all of the oecd 's member states , is one of the main problems , said chief economist padoan .
" the first , best solution for countries is strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms to boost growth .
we think this is the way forward . "
financial markets may not grant greece enough time to implement reforms however , eurozone states appear to be moving in the right direction .
" the reforms we are currently witnessing in greece and elsewhere will take effect at some point , " said gros .
" the question we 're asking right now is whether the financial markets will give those countries the time they need to implement the reforms .
germany had enough time .
greece may possibly not . "
this is a scenario no one wants to imagine .
oecd chief economist padoan gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds .
" imagining that there is a european dimension to financial markets , including bond markets , is a good idea , " he said .
author : christoph hasselbach -lrb- db / sst / dpa / afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland bailout reignites fears about the future of the euro germany has seen a number of its own currencies come and go : the deutschmark , the reichsmark and , before that , the mark .
now some analysts are grumbling that the euro may be on its way out too .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- debt crisis exposes the euro 's flaws but divorce is not an option like marriage partners , eurozone nations fight about money .
germany grumbles about paying for the profligacy of others , but pays , since sticking together is the lesser of evils , says die zeit 's josef joffe .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- eurogroup finance ministers agree details of euro safety net eurozone finance ministers have signed off on a 500-billion-euro safety fund to stave off future crises within the single currency zone .
the announcement comes amid concerns over the strength and stability of the euro .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - leben und kultur in europa we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress 60th anniversary of un refugee convention highlights plight of the displaced around the globe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
diplomacy lithuania and austria row after vienna police release an ex-kgb officer wanted for war crimes .
listen to the audio soccer turkish soccer officials meet in geneva after a match-fixing scandal gets dozens arrested .
listen to the audio education british parents are responding to government education cuts by setting up their own schools .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
the rhino mafia where to serve ?
soliders with dual citizenship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stress tests doubted as ireland suffers from bank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.12.2010 stress tests doubted as ireland suffers from bank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : are the eu 's bank stress tests accurate enough ?
ireland is floundering under the expense of its bank bailout , but irish banks passed the eu-wide stress tests in july .
some now dismiss the tests as nothing more than a ' placebo ' for the market . when the eu-wide bank stress test results were made public in july , skepticism soon followed .
after all , just seven of 91 banks failed , leading some to believe the tests had been too easy .
none of ireland 's banks failed .
yet the country floundered under the sheer expense of bailing out and reforming its financial system .
in private , the chief financial officer of a european bank recently referred to the stress tests conducted over the past year as nothing more than a " placebo for the market . "
gerhard hofmann , a board member of the national association of german cooperative banks -lrb- bvr -rrb- , is skeptical about the accuracy of the tests .
he is n't aware of any cases in which they " actually had a high level of revelatory value , or a high level of predictive power in regards to future problem areas , " he told deutsche welle .
" what is put under stress today is most likely not tomorrow 's problem . "
first public results bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german financial regulator bafin carried out stress tests in germany according to benjamin fischer , a spokesman for german financial regulator bafin , three german banks were subjected to the first european union-wide stress tests in 2009 .
those results were not published .
the number then jumped to 15 in 2010 , although one bank was the subsidiary of an italian bank and was tested by that country 's financial regulator .
the results of these tests were published .
" it was a novelty that the results were made public , " fischer told deutsche welle .
" naturally , it made working on the stress tests more difficult because the attention was significantly more present . "
stress tests , according to fischer , are hypothetical instruments normally used in the banking industry .
" banks and regulators use stress tests as a kind of early-warning system to identify possible weaknesses ahead of time , " he said .
each eu nation carried out a test prescribed by the committee of european banking supervisors -lrb- cebs -rrb- .
while another stress test is likely in 2011 , it remains to be seen whether or not results will be made public .
a spokesman for cebs declined to comment .
according to the central bank of ireland , the irish stress tests were carried out with higher loan loss rates being applied than actually required by cebs .
still , ireland 's finances buckled and its debt rating plummeted as the country scrambled to save banks teetering on the edge of collapse .
ireland will now receive a bailout from the eu and the international monetary fund worth 85 billion euros -lrb- $ 112 billion -rrb- .
banks tested at status quo michael schroeder , an economist with the centre for european economic research in mannheim , said he does n't believe the irish crisis invalidates the cebs stress tests .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : patrick honohan 's central bank of ireland carried out the stress tests in ireland " the banks were tested at status quo ... and at that point they had already passed on some of their problems to the government , " he told deutsche welle .
each individual bank was placed under artificial stress , schroeder says , but a different picture , he argues , would likely emerge if the pressure were applied system-wide .
" the problem with the financial crisis was that many banks had similar portfolios and reacted similarly – in that they wanted to get rid of their portfolios , " he said .
" i do n't believe the tests depicted the crisis situation with complete accuracy . "
schroeder advocates a method of risk analysis called covar -lrb- conditional value at risk -rrb- , which is capable of simulating " how the portfolio of a bank reacts when there is a shock in all other banks . "
in other words , covar can be used to gain insight into chain reactions throughout a financial system .
it is gaining support throughout the financial world , according to schroeder .
in general , he believes , transparency in stress testing is a worthy objective .
" there was a lot of discussion about whether to publicize the results , " schroeder said .
" if the information is reliable and accurately represents specific problems then , yes , i would publicize it .
those who are active in the market and deal in stocks and investment on a large scale should know about it . "
market supplanted by european central bank one possible pitfall is that stress testing can backfire if publicized results turn out to be inaccurate .
bankers are currently fretting over whether ireland and other troubled eu countries will be able to fully repay government bonds .
to play it safe , they often turn to the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to deposit their assets and secure lines of credit .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future of the euro is linked with that of ireland fidel helmer of the hauck & aufhauser bank says industry-wide mistrust affects all players .
banks lend less among themselves , and the supply and demand for money is routed over the ecb instead of the open market .
" i think that deutsche bank , for instance , is under excellent leadership and will fetch excellent results , " he told deutsche welle .
nevertheless , the value of the bank 's stock took a nose dive this year .
that development is something helmer directly attributes to the cebs stress tests .
he said the tests were questionable and so far-reaching that they cast doubt even on healthy institutions .
author : gerhard schneibel / michael braun editor : john blau send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu divided over euro bonds , no increase in bailout funds there was no agreement on plans for joint euro bonds at a meeting of the eurozone finance ministers in brussels on monday , where the eurogroup decided against any increase in the rescue fund for debt-saddled countries .
-lrb- 06.12.2010 -rrb- euro is ' credible , ' not in crisis : trichet ecb president jean-claude trichet has moved to calm jittery financial markets by calling the euro ' credible ' and agreeing to continue the bank 's emergency bond-buying program to prop the struggling eurozone .
-lrb- 03.12.2010 -rrb- irish central bank chief expects ' substantial eu loan ' the head of ireland 's central bank has said the country will likely receive a multi-billion-euro loan to help save the country from financial meltdown .
this comes as an eu / imf mission is in dublin for emergency talks .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- ireland announces sweeping austerity measures to secure bailout the irish government has given details of its most stringent austerity plan ever , aimed at saving 15 billion euros over the next four years .
the cuts are necessary to secure a multi-billion-euro international bailout .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- ireland announces drastic budget cuts as eu bailout is officially approved european union finance ministers formally approved the 85-billion-euro rescue loan for crisis-stricken ireland on tuesday as the country announced the toughest domestic budget in its history .
-lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the irish government unveils a crisis budget -lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- eu leaders want ecb to buy government bonds -lrb- 02.12.2010 -rrb- 9799 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live stock exchange today in history 1988 : steffi graf wins wimbledon dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany , india to work together on security council reform -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 28.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de united nations -pipe- 13.12.2010 germany , india to work together on security council reform großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : angela merkel met manmohan singh in berlin on saturday india 's prime minister manmohan singh visited berlin for talks with german chancellor angela merkel .
both countries begin their term as non-permanent members of the security council on january 1 . the indian premier was in europe to attend the 11th india-eu summit in brussels . berlin had not originally been on manmohan singh 's itinerary .
singh extended his europe trip by another eight hours at the invitation of chancellor merkel and visited the german capital on saturday .
eyeing permanent seats on the security council , india and germany have decided to work together in reforming the united nations . both agreed that it is high time to push the matter " hard " .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : in october , the un general assembly elected both germany and india as non-permanent members of the security council close cooperation after discussing the issue with chancellor merkel , the indian prime minister said , " india and germany will both be in the united nations security council in 2011 and 2012 .
we will work closely with germany both bilaterally and within the g4 to enhance the effectiveness of the security council as well as to support the expansion of the permanent and non-permanent categories of its membership . "
the g4 is an alliance of four countries -lrb- india , germany , japan and brazil -rrb- , whose members support one in their effort to obtain a permanent security council seat .
under the leadership of india and brazil , many other developing coutries have been pushing for reforms in the un setup , demanding that the security council include members from all parts of the world .
growing support for india as a superpower in the making , india has made tremendous efforts to secure its place among the world 's elite of un veto powers .
recently , it received a major boost when us president barack obama , during his trip to india , supported the indian demand for permanent membership in the security council .
a few weeks later , french president nicolas sarkozy echoed obama 's commitment .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : barack obama in new delhi as russian president dmitry medvedev and the chinese prime minister wen jiabao are also visiting india soon , new delhi is hoping to get their endorsement too .
both china and russia are permanent members of the un security council .
besides that , many other countries have already given their nod to the indian request .
chancellor merkel especially hailed president obama 's endorsement of india .
germany being the biggest economic power of europe and india the biggest democracy in the world , both countries know that together they can move faster and further than on their own . chancellor merkel said , " now that india and germany have got non-permanent membership in the security council , both countries will have an interest to see that the reform gets done . "
re-thinking the post-war world order after world war ii , when the world was desperate for stability and lasting peace , the united nations were formed with the security council as its core institution .
this body is meant to ensure international peace and security .
it has 15 members including five permanent member states .
the us , russia -lrb- formerly the soviet union -rrb- , great britain , france and china are in this elite group that can veto any resolution passed by the world 's supreme body .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the united nations security council chamber in new york every january five non-permanent members vacate their seats for new member states and thus every two years all the ten non-permanent members are changed .
colombia , south africa , portugal , india and germany are new on the council , while austria , japan , mexico , uganda and turkey are leaving it in january 2011 .
in 1945 , germany did not qualify to become a member of the big 5 , having started and lost the war . as for india , it was just a colony of great britain which was later divided into two countries , india and pakistan .
but in the course of time , the equations have changed .
after china , india is today the leading country in the so-called third world .
germany has recently questioned the " improper " representation in the security saying that africa and south america have no permanent seat , while asia is also under-represented .
but despite their joint effort , the path towards fundamental un reforms will not be easy .
both the general assembly of the 192 members strong united nations and the security council would have to agree on it .
author : anwar jamal ashraf -lrb- berlin -rrb- editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany and india push for huge trade increase german chancellor angela merkel and indian prime minister manmohan singh have announced their aim to increase bilateral trade by more than 50 percent over the next two years following a meeting in berlin .
-lrb- 11.12.2010 -rrb- german foreign minister westerwelle 's first visit to india india and germany have given a new impetus to their joint efforts for expansion of the un security council .
both countries also discussed ways to deepen their counter-terrorism cooperation .
-lrb- 18.10.2010 -rrb- indian business leaders count on germany during his three-day visit to duesseldorf and berlin last week , india 's commerce and industry minister anand sharma emphasized the need to step up cooperation with germany .
-lrb- 11.10.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic india and the eu hope to finalize a free trade agreement by early 2011 , as anwar jamal ashraf reports from brussels 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
nuclear agreement india and south korea sign a deal on nuclear cooperation to fuel india 's growth .
politics karachi violence ethnic violence in karachi has left over 40 dead and several injured .
nuclear restoring confidence the japanese government has come up with a plan to burn contaminated beef from fukushima .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : online vigilantes have taken to their keyboards following the arrest in the netherlands of two teenagers involved in last week 's distributed denial of service attacks against mastercard , lawyers tell young hackers to be aware of the law . on saturday , a second dutch teenager , 19 , was arrested for having been part of a cyberattack that targeted the dutch public prosecutor 's website .
the prosecutor 's site became a target after the dutch prosecutor arrested another dutch teenager , 16 , who had joined an online " hacktivist " attack in the name of wikileaks .
this is just the latest in a series of attacks against perceived enemies of wikileaks largely by a group of its supporters , a shadowy online vigilante group that calls itself anonymous .
" any individual , organization , corporation , and / or government entity which supports freedom of speech and a free internet is an ally of anonymous , " the organization said on its website . " if you work to suppress freedom of expression and a free internet your efforts will be halted . "
the group is more like a semi-controlled herd rather than a traditional heirarchical organization - it does not have clear leadership or direction .
previously , it targeted the church of scientology and the website of the recording industry association of america .
but now that some have been caught for their alleged crimes , it may serve as a legal warning shot to those who feel that they can hide in this hacktivist huddle .
misused technology this time around , in response to the wikileaks case , anonymous followers have been using a computer application known as low orbit ion canon -lrb- loic -rrb- .
using this software , these hacktivists , managed to temporarily disable a number of major financial companý websites , including mastercard 's .
the software used in the attacks was originally designed to help protect websites by testing their penetrability , but when pointed at an unsuspecting site it has the reverse effect .
when used en masse , it is a crude but simple way to create a ddos , or distributed denial of service attack , which floods websites with high level of artificial traffic , making them temporarily slow or more often , unusable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wikileaks founder julian assange , has neither condoned nor condemned the denial of service attacks eddy willems , the spokesperson for tthe european expert group for it security told deutsche welle that there is n't much to the application , which he describes as a " pretty screen " with some buttons to press .
yet the flood module , which crafts packets to send to the target to deal with , can be quite debilitating .
" when you get enough people doing this , " he said , " something has to give .
in this case it 's the targets ' websites . "
the war is not over if anonymous is to be believed , they will keep on bringing these kinds of online attacks as long as there are enough wikileaks supporters on board to bring it about .
as far as they are concerned , it is a matter of principle .
but legal experts are now warning hot-blooded young activists to be aware of where their principle might land them , for to use loic to launch an attack is to misuse it , and that can have very serious consequences .
" users are putting themselves at risk , " willems continued .
" they are not real cyber criminals and they do n't realize that they could be sent to prison for this kind of thing . "
this is the same type of attack that was used against estonia in 2007 , although the estonian one did not involve the use of a software application , but rather through more organized botnets .
estonian government officials suspected that the russian government was somehow involved in attacking estonian financial and political websites , but in the end , only one estonian citizen was punished , who had to pay a relatively small fine .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mastercard was one of the hacktivists ' targets in some cases , finding users is not difficult as was the case of the 19-year-old dutch teenager who was arrested on saturday - as he had neglected to mask his ip address , making it relatively simple for law enforcement to find him .
depending on the protective measures users take , its perpetrators can be easily traced within the space of a day or even just a couple of hours , something which begs the question as to why anonymous has chosen the approach it has .
one suggestion is that the loic application is easy to come by and easy to use , while another is simply that hacktivists are naive .
risky business while the first dutch teenager was released , the younger boy remains in detention over what a spokesman for the dutch prosecutors described as potentially more serious violations .
some observers believe the two boys will be among a handful likely to be singled out and held up as a deterrent to more ddos attacks of this nature .
however , izaz ali , a british attorney specializing in internet law , told deutsche welle that in the case of britain there could be more wide-spread arrests .
" we 're talking here about the computer misuse act , " he said .
" the government will be forcing the police to look into this . "
using loic in a similar fashion may also violate similar statutes in germany and the netherlands .
damage limitation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future for blue-eyed hackers ?
contrary to some reports , ali says it is not illegal to download the software , as long as it is not used for anything other than it was originally intended .
" it is no different from using microsoft word to write something that causes damage to someone else , a computer virus for example . "
damage is the main issue here - if these attacks were simply a case of tit-for-tat that did not affect the possibility to legitimately use affected sites , the lawyer says it would be a different story .
in other words , ali advocates actual old-fashioned street protests to protest their cause in time-honored style .
" do it the old way , " he said , adding that these kinds of modern cyber attacks are harmful to people who might even share the same views .
" they see they are showing people that the leaks are a good thing , but they are going to cause problems for a lot of people , and this is a bad thing . "
reporter : tamsin walker editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- dutch police arrest hacker over alleged cyber attacks hackers have been waging cyber war on the websites of opponents of wikileaks , saying they 're fighting for a " free and open " internet .
dutch police have arrested a teenager accused of taking part in the attacks .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts contrary to oft-stated claims , the wikileaks cables show no huge credibility gap between official us policies and what diplomats write in confidential cables , say experts .
that doesn ’ t hold true for some other countries .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- australia offers support to wikileaks founder , operation payback begins canberra announced it will offer consular support to wikileaks founder julian assange who 's being held in britain .
meanwhile , hackers shut down the web sites of companies that cut business ties with wikileaks .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- 9799 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 13.12.2010 hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamed does n't know who fired the bullets that hit him a visit to the two hospitals in the war-torn helmand region of afghanistan exposes the horrors that innocent civilians , so-called collateral damage caught in the crossfire , experience in modern wartime . " no weapons allowed beyond this point , " reads a sign at the entrance of boost hospital in lashkar gah , afghanistan .
such advice may be redundant elsewhere , but here at boost it is as much a declaration of principle as a regulation .
lashkar gah is the capital of helmand province - one of afghanistan 's biggest battlefields .
the region may look like a wasteland but it is still able to produce more heroin than anywhere else in the rest of the world .
in a place like this , travelling often means taking roads that may be laid with explosives , or shelled by helicopters .
it 's little wonder , then , that common health problems often become real emergencies .
no questions asked " we do not ask anyone which side they belong to , or who injured them .
our work is limited to offering free medical care to anyone who comes to the hospital , " says stefano argenziano .
he is the project coordinator for doctors without borders - known by its french acronym msf - in helmand province .
accordingly , nobody at boost speaks of " taliban terrorists ; " they use the term " government opposition " instead .
there are more than 2,000 ngos registered in kabul , but just a handful of these have a field presence .
msf is one of those rare groups .
it relies solely on private funds and , unlike many other groups , does not have paid soldiers protecting the safety of its staff .
even the usual barbed wire and sandbags are n't to be found at the camp where msf staff lodges .
" we try not to be in the same place as foreign troops .
nonetheless , our best calling card is our work , " argenziano said .
" we have earned the respect of local people because everybody knows what we are all about . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a sign tells you not to take your gun into the hospital msf resumed its work in afghanistan after an absence of five years , following the murder of five of its staff in badghis province in 2004 .
their humanitarian mission in lashkar gah , supporting boost hospital , was launched in november , 2009 .
boost is one of the two reference hospitals in the war-torn south of the country , alongside the one in kandahar .
a reference hospital is the term used by the world health organization for hospitals that accept complex cases for cutting-edge diagnosis and treatment .
ilona is a nurse who arrived in afghanistan from germany two years ago .
today , she moves gently but swiftly through the sea of blue burkhas in the female section of boost hospital .
patients from all over " many of the cases we handle deal with malnutrition in infants after drinking cow or goat milk .
their mothers are anemic and ca n't breast-feed , so the children suffer from chronic gastroenteritis because they are unable to process the animal milk , " she said .
there are also afghan nurses at boost , and assadullah - a native of the relatively peaceful northern region mazar , is one of them .
" we also treat those hospitalized for an overdose of heroin or simply the most direct victims of this war , " she said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : did the british wound - then save- ihmatullah ? -lrb- right -rrb- civilian casualties and deaths continue to increase in afghanistan , despite a commitment by nato troops to avoid them .
un figures suggest isaf troops are causing less " collateral damage " - army-speak for injured civilians - but insurgents continue to target civilians , so casualties are rising .
a un report on civilian casualties in afghanistan , released in the summer of 2010 , showed civilian deaths and injuries in the country had increased by 31 percent from a year earlier , to 3,268 . the un attributed 76 per cent of these incidents to insurgents – up from 53 per cent in 2009 .
mistaken for taliban ?
at boost , msf is primarily responsible for pediatrics and maternity .
but its not hard to find direct victims of the war as well .
take sharifullah , for instance .
a 16-year-old boy , he was shot in the stomach during the celebrations of the end of ramadan .
his older brother , abdullhaq , says he believes the wound came from british troops .
" it came from a british convoy .
the kids began to run alongside the road .
the soldiers probably took them for a gang of talibs and shot , " abdullhaq said .
he added that four months ago , four children in his village were killed the same way .
assadullah , who was briefing sharifullah on how to walk with crutches , said such cases of injury via coalition fire were " unfortunately very common " at boost .
ihmatullah , a 16-year-old shepherd from musa qala , was also possibly injured by coalition fire .
he was hit by rocket shrapnel one night while he was sleeping outdoors .
according to his father , abdulwazid , it was the british who wounded his son - then stabilized him and brought him to boost .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : six-year-old daudchan lost a leg ; his brother lost two laura mendikoa is an experienced nurse from mexico who has worked around the world , doing stints in liberia , somalia , kenya and mexico - and now helmland .
" back home life is doubtless more comfortable but it 's much more rewarding here , " she said .
mendikoa 's job one recent day was treating abdulraziq , a 13-year old from neighboring farah province who was admitted three weeks earlier after he had a life-changing encounter with an ied , or improvised explosive device .
he lost an eye and his right hand in the blast .
ieds and other tragedies sudden tragedy also changed the lives of six-year-old daudchan and his four-year-old brother , mahmadullah .
daudchan lost his leg , and his brother lost both legs .
" they were travelling with their father on a motorcycle when they had the misfortune of running over an ied , " the children 's grandfather said , holding daudchan 's bandaged stump .
" my son was luckier : he has only lost the toes of his right foot , " he added in a resigned voice .
in the building adjacent to boost hospital , an italian ngo callled emergency runs a hospital that specializes in treating the war-wounded , specializing in victims of land mines .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : doctor matteo dell 'aira was arrested and held in afghanistan at the entrance one friday , a smiling child gave his three-fingered hand to a visitor to shake .
but the child was no longer a patient - he was there to see his brother .
friday is not only a day of prayer , it 's a day to visit wounded relatives in the hospital .
the emergency hospital in lashkar gah has been in operation since 2004 , and it is the third one the milan-based ngo runs in afghanistan .
the other two are in the northern districts of panjshir and kabul , open since 1999 and 2001 respectively .
not surprisingly , the one in lashkar gah is the busiest of the three .
around 90 percent of the patients admitted are civilians - and 40 percent of those are children , according to matteo dell 'aira , the local medical coordinator .
read more on the plight of afghan civilians 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opposition blasts visit to afghanistan by defense minister and wife german defense minister karl theodor zu guttenberg is in afghanistan on an unannounced visit with his wife stephanie .
it ’ s the first time a german defense minister is being accompanied by his wife to a warzone .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- local builders risk losing out in afghanistan 's helmand province us marines and local businessmen are laying down the foundations for reconstruction in one of the taliban 's biggest strongholds in afghanistan .
but helmand is likely to remain a place where many die and a few get rich .
-lrb- 16.10.2010 -rrb- operation to remove taliban from marjah sends thousands fleeing the civilian population of marjah , a farming community in helmand , afghanistan , are fleeing ahead of a huge nato operation designed to defeat the entrenched taliban in the region and restore government control .
-lrb- 10.02.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the ngos on the ground in afghanistan can sigificantly impact the war there ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
podcast series a 19-year-old single mom reaches out to fellow refugees at the kakuma camp in kenya .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 13.12.2010 hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamed does n't know who fired the bullets that hit him a visit to the two hospitals in the war-torn helmand region of afghanistan exposes the horrors that innocent civilians , so-called collateral damage caught in the crossfire , experience in modern wartime . " no weapons allowed beyond this point , " reads a sign at the entrance of boost hospital in lashkar gah , afghanistan .
such advice may be redundant elsewhere , but here at boost it is as much a declaration of principle as a regulation .
lashkar gah is the capital of helmand province - one of afghanistan 's biggest battlefields .
the region may look like a wasteland but it is still able to produce more heroin than anywhere else in the rest of the world .
in a place like this , travelling often means taking roads that may be laid with explosives , or shelled by helicopters .
it 's little wonder , then , that common health problems often become real emergencies .
no questions asked " we do not ask anyone which side they belong to , or who injured them .
our work is limited to offering free medical care to anyone who comes to the hospital , " says stefano argenziano .
he is the project coordinator for doctors without borders - known by its french acronym msf - in helmand province .
accordingly , nobody at boost speaks of " taliban terrorists ; " they use the term " government opposition " instead .
there are more than 2,000 ngos registered in kabul , but just a handful of these have a field presence .
msf is one of those rare groups .
it relies solely on private funds and , unlike many other groups , does not have paid soldiers protecting the safety of its staff .
even the usual barbed wire and sandbags are n't to be found at the camp where msf staff lodges .
" we try not to be in the same place as foreign troops .
nonetheless , our best calling card is our work , " argenziano said .
" we have earned the respect of local people because everybody knows what we are all about . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a sign tells you not to take your gun into the hospital msf resumed its work in afghanistan after an absence of five years , following the murder of five of its staff in badghis province in 2004 .
their humanitarian mission in lashkar gah , supporting boost hospital , was launched in november , 2009 .
boost is one of the two reference hospitals in the war-torn south of the country , alongside the one in kandahar .
a reference hospital is the term used by the world health organization for hospitals that accept complex cases for cutting-edge diagnosis and treatment .
ilona is a nurse who arrived in afghanistan from germany two years ago .
today , she moves gently but swiftly through the sea of blue burkhas in the female section of boost hospital .
patients from all over " many of the cases we handle deal with malnutrition in infants after drinking cow or goat milk .
their mothers are anemic and ca n't breast-feed , so the children suffer from chronic gastroenteritis because they are unable to process the animal milk , " she said .
there are also afghan nurses at boost , and assadullah - a native of the relatively peaceful northern region mazar , is one of them .
" we also treat those hospitalized for an overdose of heroin or simply the most direct victims of this war , " she said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : did the british wound - then save- ihmatullah ? -lrb- right -rrb- civilian casualties and deaths continue to increase in afghanistan , despite a commitment by nato troops to avoid them .
un figures suggest isaf troops are causing less " collateral damage " - army-speak for injured civilians - but insurgents continue to target civilians , so casualties are rising .
a un report on civilian casualties in afghanistan , released in the summer of 2010 , showed civilian deaths and injuries in the country had increased by 31 percent from a year earlier , to 3,268 . the un attributed 76 per cent of these incidents to insurgents – up from 53 per cent in 2009 .
mistaken for taliban ?
at boost , msf is primarily responsible for pediatrics and maternity .
but its not hard to find direct victims of the war as well .
take sharifullah , for instance .
a 16-year-old boy , he was shot in the stomach during the celebrations of the end of ramadan .
his older brother , abdullhaq , says he believes the wound came from british troops .
" it came from a british convoy .
the kids began to run alongside the road .
the soldiers probably took them for a gang of talibs and shot , " abdullhaq said .
he added that four months ago , four children in his village were killed the same way .
assadullah , who was briefing sharifullah on how to walk with crutches , said such cases of injury via coalition fire were " unfortunately very common " at boost .
ihmatullah , a 16-year-old shepherd from musa qala , was also possibly injured by coalition fire .
he was hit by rocket shrapnel one night while he was sleeping outdoors .
according to his father , abdulwazid , it was the british who wounded his son - then stabilized him and brought him to boost .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : six-year-old daudchan lost a leg ; his brother lost two laura mendikoa is an experienced nurse from mexico who has worked around the world , doing stints in liberia , somalia , kenya and mexico - and now helmland .
" back home life is doubtless more comfortable but it 's much more rewarding here , " she said .
mendikoa 's job one recent day was treating abdulraziq , a 13-year old from neighboring farah province who was admitted three weeks earlier after he had a life-changing encounter with an ied , or improvised explosive device .
he lost an eye and his right hand in the blast .
ieds and other tragedies sudden tragedy also changed the lives of six-year-old daudchan and his four-year-old brother , mahmadullah .
daudchan lost his leg , and his brother lost both legs .
" they were travelling with their father on a motorcycle when they had the misfortune of running over an ied , " the children 's grandfather said , holding daudchan 's bandaged stump .
" my son was luckier : he has only lost the toes of his right foot , " he added in a resigned voice .
in the building adjacent to boost hospital , an italian ngo callled emergency runs a hospital that specializes in treating the war-wounded , specializing in victims of land mines .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : doctor matteo dell 'aira was arrested and held in afghanistan at the entrance one friday , a smiling child gave his three-fingered hand to a visitor to shake .
but the child was no longer a patient - he was there to see his brother .
friday is not only a day of prayer , it 's a day to visit wounded relatives in the hospital .
the emergency hospital in lashkar gah has been in operation since 2004 , and it is the third one the milan-based ngo runs in afghanistan .
the other two are in the northern districts of panjshir and kabul , open since 1999 and 2001 respectively .
not surprisingly , the one in lashkar gah is the busiest of the three .
around 90 percent of the patients admitted are civilians - and 40 percent of those are children , according to matteo dell 'aira , the local medical coordinator .
read more on the plight of afghan civilians 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opposition blasts visit to afghanistan by defense minister and wife german defense minister karl theodor zu guttenberg is in afghanistan on an unannounced visit with his wife stephanie .
it ’ s the first time a german defense minister is being accompanied by his wife to a warzone .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- local builders risk losing out in afghanistan 's helmand province us marines and local businessmen are laying down the foundations for reconstruction in one of the taliban 's biggest strongholds in afghanistan .
but helmand is likely to remain a place where many die and a few get rich .
-lrb- 16.10.2010 -rrb- operation to remove taliban from marjah sends thousands fleeing the civilian population of marjah , a farming community in helmand , afghanistan , are fleeing ahead of a huge nato operation designed to defeat the entrenched taliban in the region and restore government control .
-lrb- 10.02.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 13.12.2010 hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamed does n't know who fired the bullets that hit him a visit to the two hospitals in the war-torn helmand region of afghanistan exposes the horrors that innocent civilians , so-called collateral damage caught in the crossfire , experience in modern wartime . " no weapons allowed beyond this point , " reads a sign at the entrance of boost hospital in lashkar gah , afghanistan .
such advice may be redundant elsewhere , but here at boost it is as much a declaration of principle as a regulation .
lashkar gah is the capital of helmand province - one of afghanistan 's biggest battlefields .
the region may look like a wasteland but it is still able to produce more heroin than anywhere else in the rest of the world .
in a place like this , travelling often means taking roads that may be laid with explosives , or shelled by helicopters .
it 's little wonder , then , that common health problems often become real emergencies .
no questions asked " we do not ask anyone which side they belong to , or who injured them .
our work is limited to offering free medical care to anyone who comes to the hospital , " says stefano argenziano .
he is the project coordinator for doctors without borders - known by its french acronym msf - in helmand province .
accordingly , nobody at boost speaks of " taliban terrorists ; " they use the term " government opposition " instead .
there are more than 2,000 ngos registered in kabul , but just a handful of these have a field presence .
msf is one of those rare groups .
it relies solely on private funds and , unlike many other groups , does not have paid soldiers protecting the safety of its staff .
even the usual barbed wire and sandbags are n't to be found at the camp where msf staff lodges .
" we try not to be in the same place as foreign troops .
nonetheless , our best calling card is our work , " argenziano said .
" we have earned the respect of local people because everybody knows what we are all about . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a sign tells you not to take your gun into the hospital msf resumed its work in afghanistan after an absence of five years , following the murder of five of its staff in badghis province in 2004 .
their humanitarian mission in lashkar gah , supporting boost hospital , was launched in november , 2009 .
boost is one of the two reference hospitals in the war-torn south of the country , alongside the one in kandahar .
a reference hospital is the term used by the world health organization for hospitals that accept complex cases for cutting-edge diagnosis and treatment .
ilona is a nurse who arrived in afghanistan from germany two years ago .
today , she moves gently but swiftly through the sea of blue burkhas in the female section of boost hospital .
patients from all over " many of the cases we handle deal with malnutrition in infants after drinking cow or goat milk .
their mothers are anemic and ca n't breast-feed , so the children suffer from chronic gastroenteritis because they are unable to process the animal milk , " she said .
there are also afghan nurses at boost , and assadullah - a native of the relatively peaceful northern region mazar , is one of them .
" we also treat those hospitalized for an overdose of heroin or simply the most direct victims of this war , " she said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : did the british wound - then save- ihmatullah ? -lrb- right -rrb- civilian casualties and deaths continue to increase in afghanistan , despite a commitment by nato troops to avoid them .
un figures suggest isaf troops are causing less " collateral damage " - army-speak for injured civilians - but insurgents continue to target civilians , so casualties are rising .
a un report on civilian casualties in afghanistan , released in the summer of 2010 , showed civilian deaths and injuries in the country had increased by 31 percent from a year earlier , to 3,268 . the un attributed 76 per cent of these incidents to insurgents – up from 53 per cent in 2009 .
mistaken for taliban ?
at boost , msf is primarily responsible for pediatrics and maternity .
but its not hard to find direct victims of the war as well .
take sharifullah , for instance .
a 16-year-old boy , he was shot in the stomach during the celebrations of the end of ramadan .
his older brother , abdullhaq , says he believes the wound came from british troops .
" it came from a british convoy .
the kids began to run alongside the road .
the soldiers probably took them for a gang of talibs and shot , " abdullhaq said .
he added that four months ago , four children in his village were killed the same way .
assadullah , who was briefing sharifullah on how to walk with crutches , said such cases of injury via coalition fire were " unfortunately very common " at boost .
ihmatullah , a 16-year-old shepherd from musa qala , was also possibly injured by coalition fire .
he was hit by rocket shrapnel one night while he was sleeping outdoors .
according to his father , abdulwazid , it was the british who wounded his son - then stabilized him and brought him to boost .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : six-year-old daudchan lost a leg ; his brother lost two laura mendikoa is an experienced nurse from mexico who has worked around the world , doing stints in liberia , somalia , kenya and mexico - and now helmland .
" back home life is doubtless more comfortable but it 's much more rewarding here , " she said .
mendikoa 's job one recent day was treating abdulraziq , a 13-year old from neighboring farah province who was admitted three weeks earlier after he had a life-changing encounter with an ied , or improvised explosive device .
he lost an eye and his right hand in the blast .
ieds and other tragedies sudden tragedy also changed the lives of six-year-old daudchan and his four-year-old brother , mahmadullah .
daudchan lost his leg , and his brother lost both legs .
" they were travelling with their father on a motorcycle when they had the misfortune of running over an ied , " the children 's grandfather said , holding daudchan 's bandaged stump .
" my son was luckier : he has only lost the toes of his right foot , " he added in a resigned voice .
in the building adjacent to boost hospital , an italian ngo callled emergency runs a hospital that specializes in treating the war-wounded , specializing in victims of land mines .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : doctor matteo dell 'aira was arrested and held in afghanistan at the entrance one friday , a smiling child gave his three-fingered hand to a visitor to shake .
but the child was no longer a patient - he was there to see his brother .
friday is not only a day of prayer , it 's a day to visit wounded relatives in the hospital .
the emergency hospital in lashkar gah has been in operation since 2004 , and it is the third one the milan-based ngo runs in afghanistan .
the other two are in the northern districts of panjshir and kabul , open since 1999 and 2001 respectively .
not surprisingly , the one in lashkar gah is the busiest of the three .
around 90 percent of the patients admitted are civilians - and 40 percent of those are children , according to matteo dell 'aira , the local medical coordinator .
read more on the plight of afghan civilians 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opposition blasts visit to afghanistan by defense minister and wife german defense minister karl theodor zu guttenberg is in afghanistan on an unannounced visit with his wife stephanie .
it ’ s the first time a german defense minister is being accompanied by his wife to a warzone .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- local builders risk losing out in afghanistan 's helmand province us marines and local businessmen are laying down the foundations for reconstruction in one of the taliban 's biggest strongholds in afghanistan .
but helmand is likely to remain a place where many die and a few get rich .
-lrb- 16.10.2010 -rrb- operation to remove taliban from marjah sends thousands fleeing the civilian population of marjah , a farming community in helmand , afghanistan , are fleeing ahead of a huge nato operation designed to defeat the entrenched taliban in the region and restore government control .
-lrb- 10.02.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth al qaeda 's future deutsche welle takes a closer look at osama bin laden and the terrorist network he spearheaded .
podcast series roxy cruz from east la found a passion for the environment while working with farmers in nepal .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 13.12.2010 hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients back to first page back 2/2 doctors arrested , charged with plot " the hospital where we are now is witnessing the war from the other side , " he said .
dell 'aira and eight other colleagues , both italian and afghan , were arrested in april by a mixed group of afghan police and british troops .
the nine doctors were accused of participating in a plot to assassinate helmand 's governor , gulab mangal .
" the police claimed that we were handing information to the taliban and that they had even found weapons and explosives in one of our warehouses at the hospital , " the italian doctor said with a rueful smile .
" it 's a real shame what is happening here . "
the arrest came under the aegis of operation moshtarak -lrb- " together " in the afghan dari language -rrb- which was one of innumerable isaf military offensives in the region .
emergency complained that they were denied the establishment of a humanitarian corridor to evacuate the wounded from marjah , a nearby village which was heavily shelled for months .
finally , the detainees were released after nine days in jail without charges .
immediately afterward , gino strada , who founded emergency , said that the attempt to discredit his organization had failed .
he said emergency in afghanistan , especially in helmand province , was " an uncomfortable witness to what the coalition forces are doing here . "
yet more innocent victims the number of patients treated daily in the emergency hospital depends on how busy it is from day to day , said luca radaelli , one of emergency 's nurses .
" we have treated 400 patients in the past two months , but numbers can vary greatly depending on the day .
we can get 20 in one day , or just three , " he said .
after spending a day at emergency 's admission desk , the testimonies of the patients start to sound painfully familiar .
the location of the accident , and the means - gunshot , ied , mortar attack , - may change , but the victims ' profile is often recurrent : civilian , under 14 years old , with amputated limbs .
vague details , serious consequences like many others here , 15-year old shepherd ziacho still does n't know who shot off the rounds of ammunition that tore off his two legs .
" i was walking my flock in greshek -lrb- helmand -rrb- .
i remember i sat down to rest when i spotted a mine nearby .
i also saw a helicopter over me so i 'm not sure what caused the explosion , " he said .
next to him , 12-year-old mohamed listened to ziacho ´ s testimony with a blank stare .
in a low and breathy voice , he explained that he was on the roof of his house when he noticed an impact on his body .
" when they brought him here his liver was stuck onto his lungs .
it 's really a miracle that he 's still alive , " said radaelli .
bullet wounds are the most common cause of admission in this hospital , he added .
abdulwahid lost his leg in the middle of the crossfire .
" i was working in my farm when the battle began , " recalled the villager from musa qala .
" the fighting lasted between one and two hours .
in the end i felt a sharp pain in my chest and leg .
i could n't tell where the shot came from . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : abdulraziq 's meeting with an ied changed his life - and took his limb indeed it is often difficult to know just who is behind each attack in helmand province .
in addition to american and british soldiers , there are also estonians , canadians , danish , georgians and arabs from bahrain fighting in helmand .
and of course there are the taliban , or drug smugglers or , simply , road bandits .
mahmud khan , a patient at emergency , is a pashtun who had just had his right kidney removed . " i was shot when i was driving across delaram -lrb- nimroz -rrb- .
they were simply thieves who wanted my motorbike .
i wish i had given it to them from the very beginning , " he lamented .
and 12-year-old quadratullah , lying in the bed near khan , explained how he ended up in the hospital .
unfortunate house search " back in my village we spotted some people getting into an empty house .
we were most curious so we decided to see what was inside , " said quadratullah .
" i went first but i had to push the door hard because it was blocked .
then something exploded ... when i woke up here , my father told me it happened to be a warehouse where the taliban stored their weapons and explosives . "
quadratullah tells the story with the composure and the distance of somebody who has not yet had time to reflect on what has happened .
his apparent state of shock seems like a mechanism to prevent him from thinking about what kind of life awaits a kid from afghanistan who 's lost his right eye and arm , and both his legs , in a seemingly endless war .
" one has to get used to this suffering in order to survive here , but it is not easy , " said radaelli said , visibly moved .
his six-months rotation is almost over and the ngo requires its workers to rest for at least a few weeks before resuming their jobs - a well deserved oxygen break before diving again into the horror of the afghan war .
author : karlos zurutuza editor : jennifer abramsohn back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opposition blasts visit to afghanistan by defense minister and wife german defense minister karl theodor zu guttenberg is in afghanistan on an unannounced visit with his wife stephanie .
it ’ s the first time a german defense minister is being accompanied by his wife to a warzone .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- local builders risk losing out in afghanistan 's helmand province us marines and local businessmen are laying down the foundations for reconstruction in one of the taliban 's biggest strongholds in afghanistan .
but helmand is likely to remain a place where many die and a few get rich .
-lrb- 16.10.2010 -rrb- operation to remove taliban from marjah sends thousands fleeing the civilian population of marjah , a farming community in helmand , afghanistan , are fleeing ahead of a huge nato operation designed to defeat the entrenched taliban in the region and restore government control .
-lrb- 10.02.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 13.12.2010 hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients back to first page back 2/2 doctors arrested , charged with plot " the hospital where we are now is witnessing the war from the other side , " he said .
dell 'aira and eight other colleagues , both italian and afghan , were arrested in april by a mixed group of afghan police and british troops .
the nine doctors were accused of participating in a plot to assassinate helmand 's governor , gulab mangal .
" the police claimed that we were handing information to the taliban and that they had even found weapons and explosives in one of our warehouses at the hospital , " the italian doctor said with a rueful smile .
" it 's a real shame what is happening here . "
the arrest came under the aegis of operation moshtarak -lrb- " together " in the afghan dari language -rrb- which was one of innumerable isaf military offensives in the region .
emergency complained that they were denied the establishment of a humanitarian corridor to evacuate the wounded from marjah , a nearby village which was heavily shelled for months .
finally , the detainees were released after nine days in jail without charges .
immediately afterward , gino strada , who founded emergency , said that the attempt to discredit his organization had failed .
he said emergency in afghanistan , especially in helmand province , was " an uncomfortable witness to what the coalition forces are doing here . "
yet more innocent victims the number of patients treated daily in the emergency hospital depends on how busy it is from day to day , said luca radaelli , one of emergency 's nurses .
" we have treated 400 patients in the past two months , but numbers can vary greatly depending on the day .
we can get 20 in one day , or just three , " he said .
after spending a day at emergency 's admission desk , the testimonies of the patients start to sound painfully familiar .
the location of the accident , and the means - gunshot , ied , mortar attack , - may change , but the victims ' profile is often recurrent : civilian , under 14 years old , with amputated limbs .
vague details , serious consequences like many others here , 15-year old shepherd ziacho still does n't know who shot off the rounds of ammunition that tore off his two legs .
" i was walking my flock in greshek -lrb- helmand -rrb- .
i remember i sat down to rest when i spotted a mine nearby .
i also saw a helicopter over me so i 'm not sure what caused the explosion , " he said .
next to him , 12-year-old mohamed listened to ziacho ´ s testimony with a blank stare .
in a low and breathy voice , he explained that he was on the roof of his house when he noticed an impact on his body .
" when they brought him here his liver was stuck onto his lungs .
it 's really a miracle that he 's still alive , " said radaelli .
bullet wounds are the most common cause of admission in this hospital , he added .
abdulwahid lost his leg in the middle of the crossfire .
" i was working in my farm when the battle began , " recalled the villager from musa qala .
" the fighting lasted between one and two hours .
in the end i felt a sharp pain in my chest and leg .
i could n't tell where the shot came from . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : abdulraziq 's meeting with an ied changed his life - and took his limb indeed it is often difficult to know just who is behind each attack in helmand province .
in addition to american and british soldiers , there are also estonians , canadians , danish , georgians and arabs from bahrain fighting in helmand .
and of course there are the taliban , or drug smugglers or , simply , road bandits .
mahmud khan , a patient at emergency , is a pashtun who had just had his right kidney removed . " i was shot when i was driving across delaram -lrb- nimroz -rrb- .
they were simply thieves who wanted my motorbike .
i wish i had given it to them from the very beginning , " he lamented .
and 12-year-old quadratullah , lying in the bed near khan , explained how he ended up in the hospital .
unfortunate house search " back in my village we spotted some people getting into an empty house .
we were most curious so we decided to see what was inside , " said quadratullah .
" i went first but i had to push the door hard because it was blocked .
then something exploded ... when i woke up here , my father told me it happened to be a warehouse where the taliban stored their weapons and explosives . "
quadratullah tells the story with the composure and the distance of somebody who has not yet had time to reflect on what has happened .
his apparent state of shock seems like a mechanism to prevent him from thinking about what kind of life awaits a kid from afghanistan who 's lost his right eye and arm , and both his legs , in a seemingly endless war .
" one has to get used to this suffering in order to survive here , but it is not easy , " said radaelli said , visibly moved .
his six-months rotation is almost over and the ngo requires its workers to rest for at least a few weeks before resuming their jobs - a well deserved oxygen break before diving again into the horror of the afghan war .
author : karlos zurutuza editor : jennifer abramsohn back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opposition blasts visit to afghanistan by defense minister and wife german defense minister karl theodor zu guttenberg is in afghanistan on an unannounced visit with his wife stephanie .
it ’ s the first time a german defense minister is being accompanied by his wife to a warzone .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- local builders risk losing out in afghanistan 's helmand province us marines and local businessmen are laying down the foundations for reconstruction in one of the taliban 's biggest strongholds in afghanistan .
but helmand is likely to remain a place where many die and a few get rich .
-lrb- 16.10.2010 -rrb- operation to remove taliban from marjah sends thousands fleeing the civilian population of marjah , a farming community in helmand , afghanistan , are fleeing ahead of a huge nato operation designed to defeat the entrenched taliban in the region and restore government control .
-lrb- 10.02.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth al qaeda 's future deutsche welle takes a closer look at osama bin laden and the terrorist network he spearheaded .
podcast series roxy cruz from east la found a passion for the environment while working with farmers in nepal .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 13.12.2010 hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients back to first page back 2/2 doctors arrested , charged with plot " the hospital where we are now is witnessing the war from the other side , " he said .
dell 'aira and eight other colleagues , both italian and afghan , were arrested in april by a mixed group of afghan police and british troops .
the nine doctors were accused of participating in a plot to assassinate helmand 's governor , gulab mangal .
" the police claimed that we were handing information to the taliban and that they had even found weapons and explosives in one of our warehouses at the hospital , " the italian doctor said with a rueful smile .
" it 's a real shame what is happening here . "
the arrest came under the aegis of operation moshtarak -lrb- " together " in the afghan dari language -rrb- which was one of innumerable isaf military offensives in the region .
emergency complained that they were denied the establishment of a humanitarian corridor to evacuate the wounded from marjah , a nearby village which was heavily shelled for months .
finally , the detainees were released after nine days in jail without charges .
immediately afterward , gino strada , who founded emergency , said that the attempt to discredit his organization had failed .
he said emergency in afghanistan , especially in helmand province , was " an uncomfortable witness to what the coalition forces are doing here . "
yet more innocent victims the number of patients treated daily in the emergency hospital depends on how busy it is from day to day , said luca radaelli , one of emergency 's nurses .
" we have treated 400 patients in the past two months , but numbers can vary greatly depending on the day .
we can get 20 in one day , or just three , " he said .
after spending a day at emergency 's admission desk , the testimonies of the patients start to sound painfully familiar .
the location of the accident , and the means - gunshot , ied , mortar attack , - may change , but the victims ' profile is often recurrent : civilian , under 14 years old , with amputated limbs .
vague details , serious consequences like many others here , 15-year old shepherd ziacho still does n't know who shot off the rounds of ammunition that tore off his two legs .
" i was walking my flock in greshek -lrb- helmand -rrb- .
i remember i sat down to rest when i spotted a mine nearby .
i also saw a helicopter over me so i 'm not sure what caused the explosion , " he said .
next to him , 12-year-old mohamed listened to ziacho ´ s testimony with a blank stare .
in a low and breathy voice , he explained that he was on the roof of his house when he noticed an impact on his body .
" when they brought him here his liver was stuck onto his lungs .
it 's really a miracle that he 's still alive , " said radaelli .
bullet wounds are the most common cause of admission in this hospital , he added .
abdulwahid lost his leg in the middle of the crossfire .
" i was working in my farm when the battle began , " recalled the villager from musa qala .
" the fighting lasted between one and two hours .
in the end i felt a sharp pain in my chest and leg .
i could n't tell where the shot came from . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : abdulraziq 's meeting with an ied changed his life - and took his limb indeed it is often difficult to know just who is behind each attack in helmand province .
in addition to american and british soldiers , there are also estonians , canadians , danish , georgians and arabs from bahrain fighting in helmand .
and of course there are the taliban , or drug smugglers or , simply , road bandits .
mahmud khan , a patient at emergency , is a pashtun who had just had his right kidney removed . " i was shot when i was driving across delaram -lrb- nimroz -rrb- .
they were simply thieves who wanted my motorbike .
i wish i had given it to them from the very beginning , " he lamented .
and 12-year-old quadratullah , lying in the bed near khan , explained how he ended up in the hospital .
unfortunate house search " back in my village we spotted some people getting into an empty house .
we were most curious so we decided to see what was inside , " said quadratullah .
" i went first but i had to push the door hard because it was blocked .
then something exploded ... when i woke up here , my father told me it happened to be a warehouse where the taliban stored their weapons and explosives . "
quadratullah tells the story with the composure and the distance of somebody who has not yet had time to reflect on what has happened .
his apparent state of shock seems like a mechanism to prevent him from thinking about what kind of life awaits a kid from afghanistan who 's lost his right eye and arm , and both his legs , in a seemingly endless war .
" one has to get used to this suffering in order to survive here , but it is not easy , " said radaelli said , visibly moved .
his six-months rotation is almost over and the ngo requires its workers to rest for at least a few weeks before resuming their jobs - a well deserved oxygen break before diving again into the horror of the afghan war .
author : karlos zurutuza editor : jennifer abramsohn back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opposition blasts visit to afghanistan by defense minister and wife german defense minister karl theodor zu guttenberg is in afghanistan on an unannounced visit with his wife stephanie .
it ’ s the first time a german defense minister is being accompanied by his wife to a warzone .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- local builders risk losing out in afghanistan 's helmand province us marines and local businessmen are laying down the foundations for reconstruction in one of the taliban 's biggest strongholds in afghanistan .
but helmand is likely to remain a place where many die and a few get rich .
-lrb- 16.10.2010 -rrb- operation to remove taliban from marjah sends thousands fleeing the civilian population of marjah , a farming community in helmand , afghanistan , are fleeing ahead of a huge nato operation designed to defeat the entrenched taliban in the region and restore government control .
-lrb- 10.02.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the ngos on the ground in afghanistan can sigificantly impact the war there ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
podcast series a 19-year-old single mom reaches out to fellow refugees at the kakuma camp in kenya .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
victims of abuse in children 's homes ' betrayed ' by compensation proposal -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 13.12.2010 victims of abuse in children 's homes ' betrayed ' by compensation proposal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many victims feel betrayed by the round table 's results a panel called to investigate the systematic maltreatment of thousands of juveniles in children 's homes in the 1950s and 1960s has recommended the payment of compensation .
but many victims feel betrayed . an extra-parliamentary panel in berlin on monday presented the results of two years of round-table negotiations on how to compensate tens of thousands of former children and youths for the systematic wrongdoings they had to endure at the hands of educators in west germany 's children 's homes in the 1950s and 1960s .
the panel recommended that victims who suffered torture , maltreatment and humiliation receive compensation from a 120-million-euro -lrb- $ 160 million -rrb- fund financed by the german government , federal states and churches .
the payments are to be used for pension funds , for treatment of subsequent damages or as rent assistance .
" children in children 's homes were never able to argue for their rights by themselves , " said antje vollmer , head of the round-table group of politicians , church representatives and victims .
" this is why they are still entitled to financial compensation . " the german parliament bundestag and the federal states ' parliaments have yet to decide on the round table 's proposals , but georg gorissen , the representative of the federal government and the western german federal states , said they were in favor of the compensation funds .
the catholic and the protestant church announced they would pay their share of the funds .
30,000 could make use of the funds twenty million euros are planned for pension payments since a lot of children had to start working at the age of 14 , but the children 's homes declined to pay into their pension funds .
another 100 million euros should go towards the treating the consequences of the abuse .
according to recent investigations , about 30,000 people are eligible for compensation .
so far , around 2,500 former victims have come forward .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " we did n't achieve all our goals , but we did achieve a lot , " said wiegand hans-siegfried wiegand , one of the more prominent victims participating in the round table negotiations , said that not all demands had been met .
victims groups had been aiming for a monthly lump-sum payment of 300 euros or a single payment of around 50,000 euros .
" we did n't achieve all of our goals , but we did achieve a lot , " wiegand said .
compensation is a " farce " the chairwoman of the association of former children 's homes residents , monika tschapek-guentner called the compensation funds a " farce " and dismissed case-to-case examinations .
tschapek-guentner is still demanding lump-sum payments to all victims .
the 120-million-euro fund is an " outrage , " amounting to between just 2,000-4,000 euros for each victim .
" that is really humiliating , " she said .
" that 's an attempt to drop the issue with minimum compensation . "
the association advised victims to claim money from the funds .
but tschapek-guentner is planning to take the case further .
" i will go as far as the european court of justice , " she said .
another member of the round-table , juergen beverfoerden , added that victims had been under a lot of pressure at the talks .
" there was the threat that we wo n't get anything if we do n't agree to the final report , " he said .
antje vollmer rebuffed the accusations . justice minister sabine leutheusser-schnarrenberger said that " earmarked funds are an appropriate reaction to individual injustice , " but said she also understood that expectations of victims might have been higher .
the head of the catholic church in germany , robert zollitsch and his protestant counterpart , nikolaus schneider , both advocated a quick and unbureaucratic establishment of the fund .
up to 800,000 children lived in german children 's homes between 1949 and 1975 , run by the government as well as by churches .
author : sarah steffen -lrb- epd , ap , kna , afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany launches campaign for sexual abuse victims to speak out in response to the child abuse scandal in the catholic church , thousands of german victims are being targeted by a new campaign that aims to end their silent suffering .
the message is that talking helps .
-lrb- 21.09.2010 -rrb- cases of sex abuse emerge from former east germany following the scandals of child sex abuse in the roman catholic church and private schools in western germany , new revelations have now emerged about abuse in former communist east germany .
-lrb- 01.04.2010 -rrb- germany urges catholic church to come clean on child abuse the german government has called on the catholic church to play a proactive role in clarifying the widening allegations of clerical sex abuse at catholic schools throughout the country .
-lrb- 21.02.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ' too little , too late ' -lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- victims of abuse set to receive compensation -lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
animals wild boars with hearty appetites are proving problematic in berlin , where food is plentiful .
listen to the audio feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 13.12.2010 oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eurozone states have to stop spending money they do n't have and start to cut debt the oecd urged eurozone states to start cutting down their debt loads and correct economic imbalances as soon as possible .
its chief economist gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds , calling them a " good idea " . the organization for economic co-operation and development -lrb- oecd -rrb- warned the 16 eurozone member states on monday that they need to start cutting their heavy debt loads and adopt tough measures to correct economic imbalances . the oecd also urged them to install a permanent crisis resolution mechanism which would force nations to carry out reforms in order to receive aid .
in its latest survey , the oecd predicted the eurozone 's economy would grow by 1.7 percent this year before accelerating to 2 percent in 2011 .
and although the oecd said the eurozone enjoyed a " gradual and sustained recovery " from last year 's steep recession , it also predicted that the pace of recovery would likely be muted .
eurozone states should begin to cut debts by 2011 the latest " fiscal consolidation is the immediate priority to stabilize the public finances and should begin by 2011 at the latest in all countries , " the oecd said in a statement .
oecd chief economist pier carlo padoan acknowledged that it took economists like him too long to understand the underlying reasons for the euro crisis .
" we economists have to plead guilty to that because we now discovered that while looking at -lrb- the -rrb- fiscal -lrb- situation -rrb- that needs to be looked at , we neglected other elements that now we know prove to be extremely important , " he said .
the crisis was caused by an economic imbalance , which had always existed in europe , he added .
the common currency only served to exacerbate that fact .
according to daniel gros , head of the center for european policy studies , one has to go back about 20 years to find the root of the current crisis .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms " will boost growth , said padoan " the problems we have been experiencing at the european periphery go back to german reunification .
at that time , germany experienced a construction and consumption boom which led to a rise in interest rates , while the rest of europe was moving in the opposite direction , " he said .
" beginning in 1995 , it was germany that had to watch its finances while other nations , thanks to the global credit boom , were spending more freely .
now the tables are turning again . "
the massive public debt of practically all of the oecd 's member states , is one of the main problems , said chief economist padoan .
" the first , best solution for countries is strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms to boost growth .
we think this is the way forward . "
financial markets may not grant greece enough time to implement reforms however , eurozone states appear to be moving in the right direction .
" the reforms we are currently witnessing in greece and elsewhere will take effect at some point , " said gros .
" the question we 're asking right now is whether the financial markets will give those countries the time they need to implement the reforms .
germany had enough time .
greece may possibly not . "
this is a scenario no one wants to imagine .
oecd chief economist padoan gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds .
" imagining that there is a european dimension to financial markets , including bond markets , is a good idea , " he said .
author : christoph hasselbach -lrb- db / sst / dpa / afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland bailout reignites fears about the future of the euro germany has seen a number of its own currencies come and go : the deutschmark , the reichsmark and , before that , the mark .
now some analysts are grumbling that the euro may be on its way out too .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- debt crisis exposes the euro 's flaws but divorce is not an option like marriage partners , eurozone nations fight about money .
germany grumbles about paying for the profligacy of others , but pays , since sticking together is the lesser of evils , says die zeit 's josef joffe .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- eurogroup finance ministers agree details of euro safety net eurozone finance ministers have signed off on a 500-billion-euro safety fund to stave off future crises within the single currency zone .
the announcement comes amid concerns over the strength and stability of the euro .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
spain deutsche welle takes a closer look at the protesters camped out in central madrid .
watch the video poland poles protest the visit by a representative of the germans expelled from poland .
listen to the audio health uk practioners are taking the eu to court over a ban on chinese herbal medicines .
listen to the audio postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
french burqa ban fits secular ideals is berlusconi giving italy a bad name ?
a dubious record for belgium inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 13.12.2010 oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eurozone states have to stop spending money they do n't have and start to cut debt the oecd urged eurozone states to start cutting down their debt loads and correct economic imbalances as soon as possible .
its chief economist gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds , calling them a " good idea " . the organization for economic co-operation and development -lrb- oecd -rrb- warned the 16 eurozone member states on monday that they need to start cutting their heavy debt loads and adopt tough measures to correct economic imbalances . the oecd also urged them to install a permanent crisis resolution mechanism which would force nations to carry out reforms in order to receive aid .
in its latest survey , the oecd predicted the eurozone 's economy would grow by 1.7 percent this year before accelerating to 2 percent in 2011 .
and although the oecd said the eurozone enjoyed a " gradual and sustained recovery " from last year 's steep recession , it also predicted that the pace of recovery would likely be muted .
eurozone states should begin to cut debts by 2011 the latest " fiscal consolidation is the immediate priority to stabilize the public finances and should begin by 2011 at the latest in all countries , " the oecd said in a statement .
oecd chief economist pier carlo padoan acknowledged that it took economists like him too long to understand the underlying reasons for the euro crisis .
" we economists have to plead guilty to that because we now discovered that while looking at -lrb- the -rrb- fiscal -lrb- situation -rrb- that needs to be looked at , we neglected other elements that now we know prove to be extremely important , " he said .
the crisis was caused by an economic imbalance , which had always existed in europe , he added .
the common currency only served to exacerbate that fact .
according to daniel gros , head of the center for european policy studies , one has to go back about 20 years to find the root of the current crisis .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms " will boost growth , said padoan " the problems we have been experiencing at the european periphery go back to german reunification .
at that time , germany experienced a construction and consumption boom which led to a rise in interest rates , while the rest of europe was moving in the opposite direction , " he said .
" beginning in 1995 , it was germany that had to watch its finances while other nations , thanks to the global credit boom , were spending more freely .
now the tables are turning again . "
the massive public debt of practically all of the oecd 's member states , is one of the main problems , said chief economist padoan .
" the first , best solution for countries is strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms to boost growth .
we think this is the way forward . "
financial markets may not grant greece enough time to implement reforms however , eurozone states appear to be moving in the right direction .
" the reforms we are currently witnessing in greece and elsewhere will take effect at some point , " said gros .
" the question we 're asking right now is whether the financial markets will give those countries the time they need to implement the reforms .
germany had enough time .
greece may possibly not . "
this is a scenario no one wants to imagine .
oecd chief economist padoan gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds .
" imagining that there is a european dimension to financial markets , including bond markets , is a good idea , " he said .
author : christoph hasselbach -lrb- db / sst / dpa / afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland bailout reignites fears about the future of the euro germany has seen a number of its own currencies come and go : the deutschmark , the reichsmark and , before that , the mark .
now some analysts are grumbling that the euro may be on its way out too .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- debt crisis exposes the euro 's flaws but divorce is not an option like marriage partners , eurozone nations fight about money .
germany grumbles about paying for the profligacy of others , but pays , since sticking together is the lesser of evils , says die zeit 's josef joffe .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- eurogroup finance ministers agree details of euro safety net eurozone finance ministers have signed off on a 500-billion-euro safety fund to stave off future crises within the single currency zone .
the announcement comes amid concerns over the strength and stability of the euro .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit reporter we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live sports report listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 13.12.2010 hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamed does n't know who fired the bullets that hit him a visit to the two hospitals in the war-torn helmand region of afghanistan exposes the horrors that innocent civilians , so-called collateral damage caught in the crossfire , experience in modern wartime . " no weapons allowed beyond this point , " reads a sign at the entrance of boost hospital in lashkar gah , afghanistan .
such advice may be redundant elsewhere , but here at boost it is as much a declaration of principle as a regulation .
lashkar gah is the capital of helmand province - one of afghanistan 's biggest battlefields .
the region may look like a wasteland but it is still able to produce more heroin than anywhere else in the rest of the world .
in a place like this , travelling often means taking roads that may be laid with explosives , or shelled by helicopters .
it 's little wonder , then , that common health problems often become real emergencies .
no questions asked " we do not ask anyone which side they belong to , or who injured them .
our work is limited to offering free medical care to anyone who comes to the hospital , " says stefano argenziano .
he is the project coordinator for doctors without borders - known by its french acronym msf - in helmand province .
accordingly , nobody at boost speaks of " taliban terrorists ; " they use the term " government opposition " instead .
there are more than 2,000 ngos registered in kabul , but just a handful of these have a field presence .
msf is one of those rare groups .
it relies solely on private funds and , unlike many other groups , does not have paid soldiers protecting the safety of its staff .
even the usual barbed wire and sandbags are n't to be found at the camp where msf staff lodges .
" we try not to be in the same place as foreign troops .
nonetheless , our best calling card is our work , " argenziano said .
" we have earned the respect of local people because everybody knows what we are all about . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a sign tells you not to take your gun into the hospital msf resumed its work in afghanistan after an absence of five years , following the murder of five of its staff in badghis province in 2004 .
their humanitarian mission in lashkar gah , supporting boost hospital , was launched in november , 2009 .
boost is one of the two reference hospitals in the war-torn south of the country , alongside the one in kandahar .
a reference hospital is the term used by the world health organization for hospitals that accept complex cases for cutting-edge diagnosis and treatment .
ilona is a nurse who arrived in afghanistan from germany two years ago .
today , she moves gently but swiftly through the sea of blue burkhas in the female section of boost hospital .
patients from all over " many of the cases we handle deal with malnutrition in infants after drinking cow or goat milk .
their mothers are anemic and ca n't breast-feed , so the children suffer from chronic gastroenteritis because they are unable to process the animal milk , " she said .
there are also afghan nurses at boost , and assadullah - a native of the relatively peaceful northern region mazar , is one of them .
" we also treat those hospitalized for an overdose of heroin or simply the most direct victims of this war , " she said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : did the british wound - then save- ihmatullah ? -lrb- right -rrb- civilian casualties and deaths continue to increase in afghanistan , despite a commitment by nato troops to avoid them .
un figures suggest isaf troops are causing less " collateral damage " - army-speak for injured civilians - but insurgents continue to target civilians , so casualties are rising .
a un report on civilian casualties in afghanistan , released in the summer of 2010 , showed civilian deaths and injuries in the country had increased by 31 percent from a year earlier , to 3,268 . the un attributed 76 per cent of these incidents to insurgents – up from 53 per cent in 2009 .
mistaken for taliban ?
at boost , msf is primarily responsible for pediatrics and maternity .
but its not hard to find direct victims of the war as well .
take sharifullah , for instance .
a 16-year-old boy , he was shot in the stomach during the celebrations of the end of ramadan .
his older brother , abdullhaq , says he believes the wound came from british troops .
" it came from a british convoy .
the kids began to run alongside the road .
the soldiers probably took them for a gang of talibs and shot , " abdullhaq said .
he added that four months ago , four children in his village were killed the same way .
assadullah , who was briefing sharifullah on how to walk with crutches , said such cases of injury via coalition fire were " unfortunately very common " at boost .
ihmatullah , a 16-year-old shepherd from musa qala , was also possibly injured by coalition fire .
he was hit by rocket shrapnel one night while he was sleeping outdoors .
according to his father , abdulwazid , it was the british who wounded his son - then stabilized him and brought him to boost .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : six-year-old daudchan lost a leg ; his brother lost two laura mendikoa is an experienced nurse from mexico who has worked around the world , doing stints in liberia , somalia , kenya and mexico - and now helmland .
" back home life is doubtless more comfortable but it 's much more rewarding here , " she said .
mendikoa 's job one recent day was treating abdulraziq , a 13-year old from neighboring farah province who was admitted three weeks earlier after he had a life-changing encounter with an ied , or improvised explosive device .
he lost an eye and his right hand in the blast .
ieds and other tragedies sudden tragedy also changed the lives of six-year-old daudchan and his four-year-old brother , mahmadullah .
daudchan lost his leg , and his brother lost both legs .
" they were travelling with their father on a motorcycle when they had the misfortune of running over an ied , " the children 's grandfather said , holding daudchan 's bandaged stump .
" my son was luckier : he has only lost the toes of his right foot , " he added in a resigned voice .
in the building adjacent to boost hospital , an italian ngo callled emergency runs a hospital that specializes in treating the war-wounded , specializing in victims of land mines .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : doctor matteo dell 'aira was arrested and held in afghanistan at the entrance one friday , a smiling child gave his three-fingered hand to a visitor to shake .
but the child was no longer a patient - he was there to see his brother .
friday is not only a day of prayer , it 's a day to visit wounded relatives in the hospital .
the emergency hospital in lashkar gah has been in operation since 2004 , and it is the third one the milan-based ngo runs in afghanistan .
the other two are in the northern districts of panjshir and kabul , open since 1999 and 2001 respectively .
not surprisingly , the one in lashkar gah is the busiest of the three .
around 90 percent of the patients admitted are civilians - and 40 percent of those are children , according to matteo dell 'aira , the local medical coordinator .
read more on the plight of afghan civilians 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opposition blasts visit to afghanistan by defense minister and wife german defense minister karl theodor zu guttenberg is in afghanistan on an unannounced visit with his wife stephanie .
it ’ s the first time a german defense minister is being accompanied by his wife to a warzone .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- local builders risk losing out in afghanistan 's helmand province us marines and local businessmen are laying down the foundations for reconstruction in one of the taliban 's biggest strongholds in afghanistan .
but helmand is likely to remain a place where many die and a few get rich .
-lrb- 16.10.2010 -rrb- operation to remove taliban from marjah sends thousands fleeing the civilian population of marjah , a farming community in helmand , afghanistan , are fleeing ahead of a huge nato operation designed to defeat the entrenched taliban in the region and restore government control .
-lrb- 10.02.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
victims of abuse in children 's homes ' betrayed ' by compensation proposal -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 13.12.2010 victims of abuse in children 's homes ' betrayed ' by compensation proposal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many victims feel betrayed by the round table 's results a panel called to investigate the systematic maltreatment of thousands of juveniles in children 's homes in the 1950s and 1960s has recommended the payment of compensation .
but many victims feel betrayed . an extra-parliamentary panel in berlin on monday presented the results of two years of round-table negotiations on how to compensate tens of thousands of former children and youths for the systematic wrongdoings they had to endure at the hands of educators in west germany 's children 's homes in the 1950s and 1960s .
the panel recommended that victims who suffered torture , maltreatment and humiliation receive compensation from a 120-million-euro -lrb- $ 160 million -rrb- fund financed by the german government , federal states and churches .
the payments are to be used for pension funds , for treatment of subsequent damages or as rent assistance .
" children in children 's homes were never able to argue for their rights by themselves , " said antje vollmer , head of the round-table group of politicians , church representatives and victims .
" this is why they are still entitled to financial compensation . " the german parliament bundestag and the federal states ' parliaments have yet to decide on the round table 's proposals , but georg gorissen , the representative of the federal government and the western german federal states , said they were in favor of the compensation funds .
the catholic and the protestant church announced they would pay their share of the funds .
30,000 could make use of the funds twenty million euros are planned for pension payments since a lot of children had to start working at the age of 14 , but the children 's homes declined to pay into their pension funds .
another 100 million euros should go towards the treating the consequences of the abuse .
according to recent investigations , about 30,000 people are eligible for compensation .
so far , around 2,500 former victims have come forward .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " we did n't achieve all our goals , but we did achieve a lot , " said wiegand hans-siegfried wiegand , one of the more prominent victims participating in the round table negotiations , said that not all demands had been met .
victims groups had been aiming for a monthly lump-sum payment of 300 euros or a single payment of around 50,000 euros .
" we did n't achieve all of our goals , but we did achieve a lot , " wiegand said .
compensation is a " farce " the chairwoman of the association of former children 's homes residents , monika tschapek-guentner called the compensation funds a " farce " and dismissed case-to-case examinations .
tschapek-guentner is still demanding lump-sum payments to all victims .
the 120-million-euro fund is an " outrage , " amounting to between just 2,000-4,000 euros for each victim .
" that is really humiliating , " she said .
" that 's an attempt to drop the issue with minimum compensation . "
the association advised victims to claim money from the funds .
but tschapek-guentner is planning to take the case further .
" i will go as far as the european court of justice , " she said .
another member of the round-table , juergen beverfoerden , added that victims had been under a lot of pressure at the talks .
" there was the threat that we wo n't get anything if we do n't agree to the final report , " he said .
antje vollmer rebuffed the accusations . justice minister sabine leutheusser-schnarrenberger said that " earmarked funds are an appropriate reaction to individual injustice , " but said she also understood that expectations of victims might have been higher .
the head of the catholic church in germany , robert zollitsch and his protestant counterpart , nikolaus schneider , both advocated a quick and unbureaucratic establishment of the fund .
up to 800,000 children lived in german children 's homes between 1949 and 1975 , run by the government as well as by churches .
author : sarah steffen -lrb- epd , ap , kna , afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany launches campaign for sexual abuse victims to speak out in response to the child abuse scandal in the catholic church , thousands of german victims are being targeted by a new campaign that aims to end their silent suffering .
the message is that talking helps .
-lrb- 21.09.2010 -rrb- cases of sex abuse emerge from former east germany following the scandals of child sex abuse in the roman catholic church and private schools in western germany , new revelations have now emerged about abuse in former communist east germany .
-lrb- 01.04.2010 -rrb- germany urges catholic church to come clean on child abuse the german government has called on the catholic church to play a proactive role in clarifying the widening allegations of clerical sex abuse at catholic schools throughout the country .
-lrb- 21.02.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ' too little , too late ' -lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- victims of abuse set to receive compensation -lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit reporter we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour early music days in regensburg -lrb- 1 -rrb- listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.12.2010 stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is another winter of discontent for stuttgart having fired jens keller after only 60 days in charge , stuttgart are rolling the dice again with bruno labbadia , formerly of leverkusen and hamburg .
but can he handle the toughest job in german football ? what do jogi loew , ralf rangnick , matthias sammer , giovanni trapattoni and christian gross have in common ?
if you said that they are all successful coaches who have been fired by stuttgart , you 'd be right .
that might be some small consolation to jens keller , who was axed on sunday after stuttgart suffered an unlucky 2-1 loss to hanover .
that defeat left only moenchengladbach between stuttgart and the very bottom of the table .
" we 're stuck deep in the muck , " stuttgart 's technical director , fredi bobic , said after the hanover disappointment .
" i 've got my thoughts about how we 're going to get out of it . "
bobic declined to elaborate on those mental processes , but stuttgart fans at least have a name and a face to pin to them .
the question is : does bruno labbadia - along with gross and keller , stuttgart 's third coach this season - stand a chance at the hardest club in the league to lead ?
plus and minuses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bruno labbadia is going to have to put his thinking cap on bobic may be counting on what might be called the “ labbadia effect . ”
at each of his previous two teams , big bruno 's charges responded well to his tactical instructions and got off to good starts .
a series of wins such as labbadia engineered at leverkusen and hamburg in 2008 and 2009 respectively would probably be enough for stuttgart , whose only goal right now is to avoid relegation .
that 's not out of the question .
stuttgart , who are currently on 12 points , have been on the losing end of a number of controversial refereeing decisions this season and could argue that their current position in the table does n't accurately reflect their quality .
on the other hand , no one would make the case that this is a good team .
the squad has been unable to compensate for the departures of sami khedira and jens lehmann , veteran star mauro camoranesi has spent more time on his tuchus than on the turf , and chemistry between younger and older players is rumored to be quite poor .
that does n't play to labbadia 's strengths .
at both leverkusen and hamburg , he was criticized for being unapproachable and arrogant , and there were unconfirmed rumors about romantic liaisons , or attempts at such , between him and players ' wives .
whatever the truth may be , both teams suffered drastic downward spirals after their hot starts with him in charge , and he departed after less than a year in charge .
now he 's sitting on a true powder keg , a team whose supporters have in the past besieged their own team bus when they 've been disappointed by results .
labbadia 's first task is to win over those fans , and one thing is clear : it ai n't gonna be easy .
the final step toward relegation ?
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stuttgart fans wish the club had n't sold mario gomez if the new coach had any illusions about what he was getting himself into , he needed only surf briefly on the internet to dispel them .
" why labbadia , " one supporter asked on the online forum of the mass circulation bild newspaper .
" he 'll be gone quicker than he can settle on a starting 11 . "
indeed , the overarching tone of the blogosphere was sarcasm .
" the best management in the league has pulled off another brilliant move and hired a much heralded coach guaranteed to bring stability and continuity to the club , " wrote a user on the football forum of die welt newspaper .
" it looks as if stuttgart have finally committed themselves to getting relegated . "
that comment was typical of many others in blaming management for the team 's current misery .
in particular , supporters are unhappy at the club 's penchant for selling stars .
along with khedira , mario gomez and kevin kuranyi are two of the prominent and popular players stuttgart have flogged off in recent years .
if labbadia does n't pan out quickly , stuttgart could be in the hunt for a dubious record - the greatest number of coaches employed by any one club in a single season .
and if bruno does have to go , the odds are that bobic and others within stuttgart 's management will be going with him .
author : jefferson chase editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hanover hit new high with win over struggling stuttgart hanover continued to surpass expectations , rising to second in the standings with a 2-1 win over beleaguered stuttgart .
now , just third from bottom , stuttgart has decided to dump its coach , jens keller .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- ex-amateur coaches at stuttgart , cologne face uphill battle in jens keller and frank schaefer respectively , stuttgart and cologne hope that an in-house promotion will turn the tide .
but former amateur coaches seldom have long-term success in the bundesliga .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- stuttgart need a reality check as gross takes the fall stuttgart packed off its third coach in three seasons when christian gross was shown the door after a woeful start to the season .
but the club 's position is unlikely to improve until deeper problems are resolved .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- feedback will labbadia succeed at stuttgart ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 13.12.2010 hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients back to first page back 2/2 doctors arrested , charged with plot " the hospital where we are now is witnessing the war from the other side , " he said .
dell 'aira and eight other colleagues , both italian and afghan , were arrested in april by a mixed group of afghan police and british troops .
the nine doctors were accused of participating in a plot to assassinate helmand 's governor , gulab mangal .
" the police claimed that we were handing information to the taliban and that they had even found weapons and explosives in one of our warehouses at the hospital , " the italian doctor said with a rueful smile .
" it 's a real shame what is happening here . "
the arrest came under the aegis of operation moshtarak -lrb- " together " in the afghan dari language -rrb- which was one of innumerable isaf military offensives in the region .
emergency complained that they were denied the establishment of a humanitarian corridor to evacuate the wounded from marjah , a nearby village which was heavily shelled for months .
finally , the detainees were released after nine days in jail without charges .
immediately afterward , gino strada , who founded emergency , said that the attempt to discredit his organization had failed .
he said emergency in afghanistan , especially in helmand province , was " an uncomfortable witness to what the coalition forces are doing here . "
yet more innocent victims the number of patients treated daily in the emergency hospital depends on how busy it is from day to day , said luca radaelli , one of emergency 's nurses .
" we have treated 400 patients in the past two months , but numbers can vary greatly depending on the day .
we can get 20 in one day , or just three , " he said .
after spending a day at emergency 's admission desk , the testimonies of the patients start to sound painfully familiar .
the location of the accident , and the means - gunshot , ied , mortar attack , - may change , but the victims ' profile is often recurrent : civilian , under 14 years old , with amputated limbs .
vague details , serious consequences like many others here , 15-year old shepherd ziacho still does n't know who shot off the rounds of ammunition that tore off his two legs .
" i was walking my flock in greshek -lrb- helmand -rrb- .
i remember i sat down to rest when i spotted a mine nearby .
i also saw a helicopter over me so i 'm not sure what caused the explosion , " he said .
next to him , 12-year-old mohamed listened to ziacho ´ s testimony with a blank stare .
in a low and breathy voice , he explained that he was on the roof of his house when he noticed an impact on his body .
" when they brought him here his liver was stuck onto his lungs .
it 's really a miracle that he 's still alive , " said radaelli .
bullet wounds are the most common cause of admission in this hospital , he added .
abdulwahid lost his leg in the middle of the crossfire .
" i was working in my farm when the battle began , " recalled the villager from musa qala .
" the fighting lasted between one and two hours .
in the end i felt a sharp pain in my chest and leg .
i could n't tell where the shot came from . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : abdulraziq 's meeting with an ied changed his life - and took his limb indeed it is often difficult to know just who is behind each attack in helmand province .
in addition to american and british soldiers , there are also estonians , canadians , danish , georgians and arabs from bahrain fighting in helmand .
and of course there are the taliban , or drug smugglers or , simply , road bandits .
mahmud khan , a patient at emergency , is a pashtun who had just had his right kidney removed . " i was shot when i was driving across delaram -lrb- nimroz -rrb- .
they were simply thieves who wanted my motorbike .
i wish i had given it to them from the very beginning , " he lamented .
and 12-year-old quadratullah , lying in the bed near khan , explained how he ended up in the hospital .
unfortunate house search " back in my village we spotted some people getting into an empty house .
we were most curious so we decided to see what was inside , " said quadratullah .
" i went first but i had to push the door hard because it was blocked .
then something exploded ... when i woke up here , my father told me it happened to be a warehouse where the taliban stored their weapons and explosives . "
quadratullah tells the story with the composure and the distance of somebody who has not yet had time to reflect on what has happened .
his apparent state of shock seems like a mechanism to prevent him from thinking about what kind of life awaits a kid from afghanistan who 's lost his right eye and arm , and both his legs , in a seemingly endless war .
" one has to get used to this suffering in order to survive here , but it is not easy , " said radaelli said , visibly moved .
his six-months rotation is almost over and the ngo requires its workers to rest for at least a few weeks before resuming their jobs - a well deserved oxygen break before diving again into the horror of the afghan war .
author : karlos zurutuza editor : jennifer abramsohn back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opposition blasts visit to afghanistan by defense minister and wife german defense minister karl theodor zu guttenberg is in afghanistan on an unannounced visit with his wife stephanie .
it ’ s the first time a german defense minister is being accompanied by his wife to a warzone .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- local builders risk losing out in afghanistan 's helmand province us marines and local businessmen are laying down the foundations for reconstruction in one of the taliban 's biggest strongholds in afghanistan .
but helmand is likely to remain a place where many die and a few get rich .
-lrb- 16.10.2010 -rrb- operation to remove taliban from marjah sends thousands fleeing the civilian population of marjah , a farming community in helmand , afghanistan , are fleeing ahead of a huge nato operation designed to defeat the entrenched taliban in the region and restore government control .
-lrb- 10.02.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the ngos on the ground in afghanistan can sigificantly impact the war there ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
us-pakistan relations the new york times is reporting that the us is planning special operations in pakistan .
taliban expert ahmed rashid talks about the new york times report the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 13.12.2010 uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stop and listen this christmas , says cage against the machine a uk campaign aims to rock the christmas single charts - with the sound of silence .
they 're using experimentalist composer john cage 's masterpiece of silence , 4 ' 33 " , to get people listening to the needs around them . it all started as a joke . last year , a uk campaign succeeded in its aim of preventing the winner of casting show x-factor from becoming christmas number one by encouraging people to help " killing in the name " by us band rage against the machine top the charts . this year , uk art therapy masters student dave hilliard quipped to his friends , " let 's get silence to number one . " " it was meant to be a joke , " julie hilliard , dave hilliard 's wife and co-initiator of cage against the machine -lrb- catm -rrb- , told deutsche welle .
" but it captured the imagination of so many people . " when it comes to getting silence on the charts , the avant-garde work " 4 ' 33 " by american experimental composer john cage -lrb- 1912-1992 -rrb- is the first that comes to mind .
the score calls for any combination of musicians to go on stage and play absolutely nothing for exactly four minutes and 33 seconds .
for some , an agonizing exercise in patience ; for others , ear-opening proof that escape from the unceasing aural bombardment of our multimedia society is , indeed , possible . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john cage was fascinated by incidental sound open your ears the hilliards , along with long-time friend and music pr expert john rogers , are less interested in making a profound artistic statement and keener raising money for a few underfunded charities . starting monday , december 13 , supporters can purchase a specially recorded version of cage 's groundbreaking 1952 work , which included the participation of artists like aeroplane , billy bragg and kooks - though , of course , they ca n't really be heard . they recorded their own version to ensure that the revenue went directly to selected charities , but also because most other editions separate the work 's three movements into three tracks - but only single tracks are eligible for the single charts . revenue from the recordings and from ads on the groups website go to charities like c.a.l.m. , which provides support to young men considering suicide , the british tinnitus association , and organizations that offer music education to underprivileged children . " when you stop talking and you start to look at the world around you , you can see all these other needs that are there , besides your own , " said julie hilliard , adding that the charities they chose particularly reflected their appeal to stop and listen . ' cage would approve ' new york-based john cage expert richard kostelanetz said he did n't think the composer would have objected to the use of his work in this way . " he lived on a very busy avenue and did n't own a record player , because he preferred to listen to the noise outside his house , " kostelanetz told deutsche welle . the cage expert added that the setting of the work is crucial to making it a work of art and that the irony is so much stronger when it is performed by renowned artists - like those involved in catm .
the audience is bound to listen even more intently , knowing what they could be hearing from those artists , if they were actually playing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the black eyed peas are number one this week taking back the charts with more than 80,000 facebook fans as of december 13 , cage against the machine may be well on its way to rocking the uk 's christmas charts . they 'll have stiff competition from black eyed peas , who top this week 's singles chart in the uk with " the time -lrb- dirty bit -rrb- " and from matt cardle , the most recent winner of the uk 's popular casting show , x factor . the media has largely focused on the cage against the machine campaign as a counterpoint to market-tailored pop ballade and , specifically , to x factor .
however , hilliard said she and her husband have nothing against the casting show , but simply are n't interested in watching it . " if you do n't like it , do n't turn it on ; if you do n't like the record , do n't buy it , " she said . and if cage against the machine has its way , christmas eve in the uk will truly be a silent night - or at least one filled with incidental noise . author : kate bowen editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de music hotel brings new beat to berlin berlin 's new music hotel , nhow , combines luxury , design and quality musical facilities .
it hopes to bridge the gap between international and local artists - but the city 's underground scene is n't easily impressed .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- young german pianist unites classical music with world of video games benyamin nuss , 21 , has been wowing audiences in some of europe 's finest concert halls with solo piano interpretations of video game music by nobuo uematsu .
he spoke to deutsche welle about this unusual project .
-lrb- 04.12.2010 -rrb- france to start carte musique digital music subsidy plan france hopes to change young shoppers ' habits by subsidizing the sale of music with a " music card . "
but the government has not yet said which online services people will be able to use to make purchases .
-lrb- 27.10.2010 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
travel take a close-up look at some of europe 's most exciting cities .
oxford , britain schwerin , germany las palmas , spain reykjavik , iceland darmstadt , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 13.12.2010 uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stop and listen this christmas , says cage against the machine a uk campaign aims to rock the christmas single charts - with the sound of silence .
they 're using experimentalist composer john cage 's masterpiece of silence , 4 ' 33 " , to get people listening to the needs around them . it all started as a joke . last year , a uk campaign succeeded in its aim of preventing the winner of casting show x-factor from becoming christmas number one by encouraging people to help " killing in the name " by us band rage against the machine top the charts . this year , uk art therapy masters student dave hilliard quipped to his friends , " let 's get silence to number one . " " it was meant to be a joke , " julie hilliard , dave hilliard 's wife and co-initiator of cage against the machine -lrb- catm -rrb- , told deutsche welle .
" but it captured the imagination of so many people . " when it comes to getting silence on the charts , the avant-garde work " 4 ' 33 " by american experimental composer john cage -lrb- 1912-1992 -rrb- is the first that comes to mind .
the score calls for any combination of musicians to go on stage and play absolutely nothing for exactly four minutes and 33 seconds .
for some , an agonizing exercise in patience ; for others , ear-opening proof that escape from the unceasing aural bombardment of our multimedia society is , indeed , possible . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john cage was fascinated by incidental sound open your ears the hilliards , along with long-time friend and music pr expert john rogers , are less interested in making a profound artistic statement and keener raising money for a few underfunded charities . starting monday , december 13 , supporters can purchase a specially recorded version of cage 's groundbreaking 1952 work , which included the participation of artists like aeroplane , billy bragg and kooks - though , of course , they ca n't really be heard . they recorded their own version to ensure that the revenue went directly to selected charities , but also because most other editions separate the work 's three movements into three tracks - but only single tracks are eligible for the single charts . revenue from the recordings and from ads on the groups website go to charities like c.a.l.m. , which provides support to young men considering suicide , the british tinnitus association , and organizations that offer music education to underprivileged children . " when you stop talking and you start to look at the world around you , you can see all these other needs that are there , besides your own , " said julie hilliard , adding that the charities they chose particularly reflected their appeal to stop and listen . ' cage would approve ' new york-based john cage expert richard kostelanetz said he did n't think the composer would have objected to the use of his work in this way . " he lived on a very busy avenue and did n't own a record player , because he preferred to listen to the noise outside his house , " kostelanetz told deutsche welle . the cage expert added that the setting of the work is crucial to making it a work of art and that the irony is so much stronger when it is performed by renowned artists - like those involved in catm .
the audience is bound to listen even more intently , knowing what they could be hearing from those artists , if they were actually playing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the black eyed peas are number one this week taking back the charts with more than 80,000 facebook fans as of december 13 , cage against the machine may be well on its way to rocking the uk 's christmas charts . they 'll have stiff competition from black eyed peas , who top this week 's singles chart in the uk with " the time -lrb- dirty bit -rrb- " and from matt cardle , the most recent winner of the uk 's popular casting show , x factor . the media has largely focused on the cage against the machine campaign as a counterpoint to market-tailored pop ballade and , specifically , to x factor .
however , hilliard said she and her husband have nothing against the casting show , but simply are n't interested in watching it . " if you do n't like it , do n't turn it on ; if you do n't like the record , do n't buy it , " she said . and if cage against the machine has its way , christmas eve in the uk will truly be a silent night - or at least one filled with incidental noise . author : kate bowen editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de music hotel brings new beat to berlin berlin 's new music hotel , nhow , combines luxury , design and quality musical facilities .
it hopes to bridge the gap between international and local artists - but the city 's underground scene is n't easily impressed .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- young german pianist unites classical music with world of video games benyamin nuss , 21 , has been wowing audiences in some of europe 's finest concert halls with solo piano interpretations of video game music by nobuo uematsu .
he spoke to deutsche welle about this unusual project .
-lrb- 04.12.2010 -rrb- france to start carte musique digital music subsidy plan france hopes to change young shoppers ' habits by subsidizing the sale of music with a " music card . "
but the government has not yet said which online services people will be able to use to make purchases .
-lrb- 27.10.2010 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
the podcast 's homepage somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
successful european tech startups continue to lag behind -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 successful european tech startups continue to lag behind großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : european startups still lag behind us counterparts after a series of recent european tech conferences , silicon valley continues to dominate .
tech venture capital on this side of the atlantic still remains relatively small , due to bureaucracy , language problems . it was hard to ignore the dominance of silicon valley at this year 's leweb tech conference last week in paris - nearly all the speakers and featured guests were from california 's famed tech hub .
while european innovation is picking up speed , it is starting from a long way behind the american startup scene - participants at the conference blamed over-cautious investors and misguided government spending .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : european venture capitalists have n't been investing in tech startups as long as they have been in silicon valley a vicious cycle in europe adventurous investors tend to be entrepreneurs themselves , so , where silicon valley has created a virtuous cycle , europe is faced with a chicken-and-egg situation : there 's not enough money because there are not enough start-ups , and there are not enough start-ups because there 's not enough money .
" i know quite a few companies that moved to the valley just because they found capital there , " said sarik weber , a german entrepreneur who runs the start-up incubator programme hanse ventures in hamburg .
his company provides capital and advice to new businesses .
" the whole silicon valley ecosystem is based on 40 to 50 years of entrepreneurs building their companies doing exits very successfully and then reinvesting this money back into the ecosystem , " he added . " this is what really fosters the european startup scene .
when we get great exits like skype or others , these people reinvest their money into european start-ups and we have to create that . "
while european governments spend more on research and development than their american and japanese counterparts , experts say that tax incentives and subsidies are not doing anything to encourage private-sector investors .
" the state is doing its job , but do the individual investors have enough confidence to invest more in research and development ? " said pierre monhen , who teaches innovation policy at the united nations university in maastricht , the netherlands .
" there is a more cautious attitude in europe than in the us . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some entrepeneurs claim that with the proper political direction , european startups could do much better poor european political decisions hinder innovation , entrepeneurs say but several entrepreneurs at leweb maintained that it is a political problem , and less of a problem of entrepeneurship . european governments , and the european union itself , may be spending money , but it is not very effective .
johan staeul von holstein , who has most recently founded mycube , a social networking startup based in singapore , thinks innovation could be encouraged with judicious tax reforms .
" there 's as much capital as you can possibly imagine around , " he said .
" it 's just that the wrong people are sitting on the capital .
politicians need to understand the value of entrepreneurship and innovation and growth , and by giving huge tax benefits to entrepreneurs making their own decisions and putting large amounts of money in the hands of entrepreneurs : that would change the whole system in 24 hours . "
a more serious problem is cultural attitudes and bad ideas , according to tariq krim , one of europe 's most successful entrepreneurs .
he set up jolicloud , a company that makes a linux-based operating system which can be installed on any computer .
he adds that spending on innovation is misguided , and tends to go to a few large companies rather than lots of small ones .
in 2008 , france , for example , invested 99 million euros -lrb- $ 131 million -rrb- in a new search engine called quearo , which was supposed to be a european answer to google .
since then , essentially nothing has happened and the project appears to be dead .
" they should have rather give money to 20 start ups , " krim said .
“ it has to be a competitive state about ideas . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many european startups , like slense , limit themselves to only a few languages , like english - making the european market a lot smaller .
heterogeneous language , culture slow european tech startups but beyond poor investment , the single european market may have simplified the movement of labor and money , but it has not created a single customer base .
freddy mini , who runs netvibes , a start-up that creates personalised dashboards on the web , pointed out that american companies automatically have a leg up , as they have a much more culturally and linguistically homogenous employment and customer base than their european counterparts .
in other words , he noted , european companies have to hire specialists for each corner of the continent .
" the first advice is forget your culture - get to the culture of the country where you live and hire people from the ground , " he said .
author : molly guinness , paris editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de niche search engines pick needles out of web haystacks several new search engines focus on segments of the web , like social networking or microblogging sites .
they are not looking to challenge google , but they are letting users search places that google ca n't reach .
-lrb- 22.09.2010 -rrb- swedish start-up offers new micro-donation system flattr lets readers donate by clicking buttons on blogs and other websites .
some sites have reported income of over 1,000 euros as a result of the new company .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- ‘ hubs ’ offer like-minded businesses a shared home as more people start businesses from home with nothing but a laptop , the rapidly growing ' hub ' network aims to create a mutually beneficial work environment that provides some of the perks of working for a larger firm .
-lrb- 21.07.2010 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.12.2010 stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is another winter of discontent for stuttgart having fired jens keller after only 60 days in charge , stuttgart are rolling the dice again with bruno labbadia , formerly of leverkusen and hamburg .
but can he handle the toughest job in german football ? what do jogi loew , ralf rangnick , matthias sammer , giovanni trapattoni and christian gross have in common ?
if you said that they are all successful coaches who have been fired by stuttgart , you 'd be right .
that might be some small consolation to jens keller , who was axed on sunday after stuttgart suffered an unlucky 2-1 loss to hanover .
that defeat left only moenchengladbach between stuttgart and the very bottom of the table .
" we 're stuck deep in the muck , " stuttgart 's technical director , fredi bobic , said after the hanover disappointment .
" i 've got my thoughts about how we 're going to get out of it . "
bobic declined to elaborate on those mental processes , but stuttgart fans at least have a name and a face to pin to them .
the question is : does bruno labbadia - along with gross and keller , stuttgart 's third coach this season - stand a chance at the hardest club in the league to lead ?
plus and minuses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bruno labbadia is going to have to put his thinking cap on bobic may be counting on what might be called the “ labbadia effect . ”
at each of his previous two teams , big bruno 's charges responded well to his tactical instructions and got off to good starts .
a series of wins such as labbadia engineered at leverkusen and hamburg in 2008 and 2009 respectively would probably be enough for stuttgart , whose only goal right now is to avoid relegation .
that 's not out of the question .
stuttgart , who are currently on 12 points , have been on the losing end of a number of controversial refereeing decisions this season and could argue that their current position in the table does n't accurately reflect their quality .
on the other hand , no one would make the case that this is a good team .
the squad has been unable to compensate for the departures of sami khedira and jens lehmann , veteran star mauro camoranesi has spent more time on his tuchus than on the turf , and chemistry between younger and older players is rumored to be quite poor .
that does n't play to labbadia 's strengths .
at both leverkusen and hamburg , he was criticized for being unapproachable and arrogant , and there were unconfirmed rumors about romantic liaisons , or attempts at such , between him and players ' wives .
whatever the truth may be , both teams suffered drastic downward spirals after their hot starts with him in charge , and he departed after less than a year in charge .
now he 's sitting on a true powder keg , a team whose supporters have in the past besieged their own team bus when they 've been disappointed by results .
labbadia 's first task is to win over those fans , and one thing is clear : it ai n't gonna be easy .
the final step toward relegation ?
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stuttgart fans wish the club had n't sold mario gomez if the new coach had any illusions about what he was getting himself into , he needed only surf briefly on the internet to dispel them .
" why labbadia , " one supporter asked on the online forum of the mass circulation bild newspaper .
" he 'll be gone quicker than he can settle on a starting 11 . "
indeed , the overarching tone of the blogosphere was sarcasm .
" the best management in the league has pulled off another brilliant move and hired a much heralded coach guaranteed to bring stability and continuity to the club , " wrote a user on the football forum of die welt newspaper .
" it looks as if stuttgart have finally committed themselves to getting relegated . "
that comment was typical of many others in blaming management for the team 's current misery .
in particular , supporters are unhappy at the club 's penchant for selling stars .
along with khedira , mario gomez and kevin kuranyi are two of the prominent and popular players stuttgart have flogged off in recent years .
if labbadia does n't pan out quickly , stuttgart could be in the hunt for a dubious record - the greatest number of coaches employed by any one club in a single season .
and if bruno does have to go , the odds are that bobic and others within stuttgart 's management will be going with him .
author : jefferson chase editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hanover hit new high with win over struggling stuttgart hanover continued to surpass expectations , rising to second in the standings with a 2-1 win over beleaguered stuttgart .
now , just third from bottom , stuttgart has decided to dump its coach , jens keller .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- ex-amateur coaches at stuttgart , cologne face uphill battle in jens keller and frank schaefer respectively , stuttgart and cologne hope that an in-house promotion will turn the tide .
but former amateur coaches seldom have long-term success in the bundesliga .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- stuttgart need a reality check as gross takes the fall stuttgart packed off its third coach in three seasons when christian gross was shown the door after a woeful start to the season .
but the club 's position is unlikely to improve until deeper problems are resolved .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- 07 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report euro 2012 live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's euro 2012 qualifier against austria : june 3 , 18:15 utc © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.12.2010 stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is another winter of discontent for stuttgart having fired jens keller after only 60 days in charge , stuttgart are rolling the dice again with bruno labbadia , formerly of leverkusen and hamburg .
but can he handle the toughest job in german football ? what do jogi loew , ralf rangnick , matthias sammer , giovanni trapattoni and christian gross have in common ?
if you said that they are all successful coaches who have been fired by stuttgart , you 'd be right .
that might be some small consolation to jens keller , who was axed on sunday after stuttgart suffered an unlucky 2-1 loss to hanover .
that defeat left only moenchengladbach between stuttgart and the very bottom of the table .
" we 're stuck deep in the muck , " stuttgart 's technical director , fredi bobic , said after the hanover disappointment .
" i 've got my thoughts about how we 're going to get out of it . "
bobic declined to elaborate on those mental processes , but stuttgart fans at least have a name and a face to pin to them .
the question is : does bruno labbadia - along with gross and keller , stuttgart 's third coach this season - stand a chance at the hardest club in the league to lead ?
plus and minuses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bruno labbadia is going to have to put his thinking cap on bobic may be counting on what might be called the “ labbadia effect . ”
at each of his previous two teams , big bruno 's charges responded well to his tactical instructions and got off to good starts .
a series of wins such as labbadia engineered at leverkusen and hamburg in 2008 and 2009 respectively would probably be enough for stuttgart , whose only goal right now is to avoid relegation .
that 's not out of the question .
stuttgart , who are currently on 12 points , have been on the losing end of a number of controversial refereeing decisions this season and could argue that their current position in the table does n't accurately reflect their quality .
on the other hand , no one would make the case that this is a good team .
the squad has been unable to compensate for the departures of sami khedira and jens lehmann , veteran star mauro camoranesi has spent more time on his tuchus than on the turf , and chemistry between younger and older players is rumored to be quite poor .
that does n't play to labbadia 's strengths .
at both leverkusen and hamburg , he was criticized for being unapproachable and arrogant , and there were unconfirmed rumors about romantic liaisons , or attempts at such , between him and players ' wives .
whatever the truth may be , both teams suffered drastic downward spirals after their hot starts with him in charge , and he departed after less than a year in charge .
now he 's sitting on a true powder keg , a team whose supporters have in the past besieged their own team bus when they 've been disappointed by results .
labbadia 's first task is to win over those fans , and one thing is clear : it ai n't gonna be easy .
the final step toward relegation ?
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stuttgart fans wish the club had n't sold mario gomez if the new coach had any illusions about what he was getting himself into , he needed only surf briefly on the internet to dispel them .
" why labbadia , " one supporter asked on the online forum of the mass circulation bild newspaper .
" he 'll be gone quicker than he can settle on a starting 11 . "
indeed , the overarching tone of the blogosphere was sarcasm .
" the best management in the league has pulled off another brilliant move and hired a much heralded coach guaranteed to bring stability and continuity to the club , " wrote a user on the football forum of die welt newspaper .
" it looks as if stuttgart have finally committed themselves to getting relegated . "
that comment was typical of many others in blaming management for the team 's current misery .
in particular , supporters are unhappy at the club 's penchant for selling stars .
along with khedira , mario gomez and kevin kuranyi are two of the prominent and popular players stuttgart have flogged off in recent years .
if labbadia does n't pan out quickly , stuttgart could be in the hunt for a dubious record - the greatest number of coaches employed by any one club in a single season .
and if bruno does have to go , the odds are that bobic and others within stuttgart 's management will be going with him .
author : jefferson chase editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hanover hit new high with win over struggling stuttgart hanover continued to surpass expectations , rising to second in the standings with a 2-1 win over beleaguered stuttgart .
now , just third from bottom , stuttgart has decided to dump its coach , jens keller .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- ex-amateur coaches at stuttgart , cologne face uphill battle in jens keller and frank schaefer respectively , stuttgart and cologne hope that an in-house promotion will turn the tide .
but former amateur coaches seldom have long-term success in the bundesliga .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- stuttgart need a reality check as gross takes the fall stuttgart packed off its third coach in three seasons when christian gross was shown the door after a woeful start to the season .
but the club 's position is unlikely to improve until deeper problems are resolved .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- 07 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit die woche we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
women 's world cup live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's next match against france : july 5 , 18:30 utc dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report corruption soccer scandal turkish police arrest 60 people in turkey 's biggest ever soccer match-fixing scandal .
anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.12.2010 stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is another winter of discontent for stuttgart having fired jens keller after only 60 days in charge , stuttgart are rolling the dice again with bruno labbadia , formerly of leverkusen and hamburg .
but can he handle the toughest job in german football ? what do jogi loew , ralf rangnick , matthias sammer , giovanni trapattoni and christian gross have in common ?
if you said that they are all successful coaches who have been fired by stuttgart , you 'd be right .
that might be some small consolation to jens keller , who was axed on sunday after stuttgart suffered an unlucky 2-1 loss to hanover .
that defeat left only moenchengladbach between stuttgart and the very bottom of the table .
" we 're stuck deep in the muck , " stuttgart 's technical director , fredi bobic , said after the hanover disappointment .
" i 've got my thoughts about how we 're going to get out of it . "
bobic declined to elaborate on those mental processes , but stuttgart fans at least have a name and a face to pin to them .
the question is : does bruno labbadia - along with gross and keller , stuttgart 's third coach this season - stand a chance at the hardest club in the league to lead ?
plus and minuses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bruno labbadia is going to have to put his thinking cap on bobic may be counting on what might be called the “ labbadia effect . ”
at each of his previous two teams , big bruno 's charges responded well to his tactical instructions and got off to good starts .
a series of wins such as labbadia engineered at leverkusen and hamburg in 2008 and 2009 respectively would probably be enough for stuttgart , whose only goal right now is to avoid relegation .
that 's not out of the question .
stuttgart , who are currently on 12 points , have been on the losing end of a number of controversial refereeing decisions this season and could argue that their current position in the table does n't accurately reflect their quality .
on the other hand , no one would make the case that this is a good team .
the squad has been unable to compensate for the departures of sami khedira and jens lehmann , veteran star mauro camoranesi has spent more time on his tuchus than on the turf , and chemistry between younger and older players is rumored to be quite poor .
that does n't play to labbadia 's strengths .
at both leverkusen and hamburg , he was criticized for being unapproachable and arrogant , and there were unconfirmed rumors about romantic liaisons , or attempts at such , between him and players ' wives .
whatever the truth may be , both teams suffered drastic downward spirals after their hot starts with him in charge , and he departed after less than a year in charge .
now he 's sitting on a true powder keg , a team whose supporters have in the past besieged their own team bus when they 've been disappointed by results .
labbadia 's first task is to win over those fans , and one thing is clear : it ai n't gonna be easy .
the final step toward relegation ?
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stuttgart fans wish the club had n't sold mario gomez if the new coach had any illusions about what he was getting himself into , he needed only surf briefly on the internet to dispel them .
" why labbadia , " one supporter asked on the online forum of the mass circulation bild newspaper .
" he 'll be gone quicker than he can settle on a starting 11 . "
indeed , the overarching tone of the blogosphere was sarcasm .
" the best management in the league has pulled off another brilliant move and hired a much heralded coach guaranteed to bring stability and continuity to the club , " wrote a user on the football forum of die welt newspaper .
" it looks as if stuttgart have finally committed themselves to getting relegated . "
that comment was typical of many others in blaming management for the team 's current misery .
in particular , supporters are unhappy at the club 's penchant for selling stars .
along with khedira , mario gomez and kevin kuranyi are two of the prominent and popular players stuttgart have flogged off in recent years .
if labbadia does n't pan out quickly , stuttgart could be in the hunt for a dubious record - the greatest number of coaches employed by any one club in a single season .
and if bruno does have to go , the odds are that bobic and others within stuttgart 's management will be going with him .
author : jefferson chase editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hanover hit new high with win over struggling stuttgart hanover continued to surpass expectations , rising to second in the standings with a 2-1 win over beleaguered stuttgart .
now , just third from bottom , stuttgart has decided to dump its coach , jens keller .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- ex-amateur coaches at stuttgart , cologne face uphill battle in jens keller and frank schaefer respectively , stuttgart and cologne hope that an in-house promotion will turn the tide .
but former amateur coaches seldom have long-term success in the bundesliga .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- stuttgart need a reality check as gross takes the fall stuttgart packed off its third coach in three seasons when christian gross was shown the door after a woeful start to the season .
but the club 's position is unlikely to improve until deeper problems are resolved .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- feedback will labbadia succeed at stuttgart ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
all i want for christmas is ... -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de christmas -pipe- 13.12.2010 all i want for christmas is ... großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children have left instructions for christmas gift-givers for over a century toothpaste may seem like an unusual item on a christmas wish list - but over a century ago , it was n't so strange .
an exhibition in dortmund unveils the touching and sometimes comical history of holiday wish lists . in some countries , christmas presents are exchanged on the morning of december 25 , while most europeans give gifts on the evening of the 24th .
no matter when they 're unwrapped , it 's hard to imagine christmas without presents . the tradition , however , is relatively new .
it was n't until the end of the 19th century that gift-giving was associated with christmas in germany .
before that , st. nicholas brought presents to well-behaved children on december 6 . with the advent of gifts , it was only inevitable that children would help the givers - real and imagined - out with wish lists . " the development of the christmas gift-giving tradition mainly had to do with the fact that more presents and toys were available as a result of industrialization , " historian isolde parussel told deutsche welle . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a christmas gift table may have looked like this in the 19th century of course , not everyone could afford the new toys , but that did n't keep children from writing out their wishes . old toys made just like new parussel is behind the exhibition " … bring us many nice things , " which is currently on show at the museum of art and cultural history in the western german city of dortmund .
over 100 holiday wish lists are on display , along with decorative gift tables , toys and festive christmas trees from the past century . most of the items were collected from private households following a request published in german newspapers . some of the wish lists are addressed to st. nicholas or santa claus , but many were written to the ' christkind ' - a sprite-like child , usually depicted with blond hair and angelic wings . in one list from 1899 , a young girl hoped for " a dress for -lsb- my doll -rsb- fraenzchen , a set of colored pencils , a sailor 's hat for me " but also " calling cards and a tube of calodont tooth paste . "
at the end of the 19th century , tooth paste in tubes was extremely modern - something extraordinary even for a little girl . as the end of the girl 's letter reveals , gifts were n't necessarily expected to be new .
" and then , dear christkind , -lsb- my dolls -rsb- siegfried and dori need to be taken to the hospital .
dori 's hair is growing very sparsely on her head and her limbs are very droopy .
both of these things need to be fixed , " wrote the girl . despite having to organize presents for so many children , the christkind occasionally found time to write back .
one such letter - composed on a typewriter and dated christmas eve , 1911 - is included in the exhibition ; parussel suspects , of course , that it was written by the parents .
" the angels say that you and -lsb- your sister -rsb- staenzerl were n't very good doll mothers this year , " read the letter : " under these circumstances , entrusting you with a real baby seems to be too much of a responsibility . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : isolde parussel curated the dortmund exhibition apparently , the girls had wished for a sibling - a gift their parents apparently were n't yet willing to provide . some things do n't change the letters and lists offer insights into the everyday lives of various generations .
children from the post-world war ii generation wanted nothing more than a warm hat or a notebook for school .
one short generation later , one girl asked for a knee-length skirt , according to the trend of the time . the most recent wish list in the collection is from 2008 .
jascha from dortmund had cut out pictures from catalogues - complete with price tags - to illustrate his list , which mainly consisted of electronics . jascha 's wishes are expensive , but , when taking the standard of living into account , they 're not necessarily more valuable than the things children asked for a century ago , said parussel . " you ca n't necessarily say that this child is just focused on consumption , " she said .
he put just as much effort into his wish list , writing it neatly and decorating it with colored pencils . " author : sola huelsewig -lrb- kjb -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de toys r ' scarce in german stores toy makers and retailers in germany could n't be happier : christmas shoppers appear to have a near insatiable appetite for toys .
products from traditional european toymakers like lego and playmobil are in high demand .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- racism controversy dampens holland 's sinterklaas tradition children across europe eagerly await the arrival of st. nicholas on december 6 .
but in holland , the tradition has racist implications that the dutch are n't quite willing to give up .
-lrb- 05.12.2010 -rrb- ' dear christkind ' : a german post office answers christmas letters in the small town of engelskirchen , thousands of letters from around the world arrive at a seasonal christmas post office , all addressed to one person .
for over 20 years , postal workers have written back .
-lrb- 24.12.2009 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
travel take a close-up look at some of europe 's most exciting cities .
oxford , britain schwerin , germany las palmas , spain reykjavik , iceland darmstadt , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
all i want for christmas is ... -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de christmas -pipe- 13.12.2010 all i want for christmas is ... großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children have left instructions for christmas gift-givers for over a century toothpaste may seem like an unusual item on a christmas wish list - but over a century ago , it was n't so strange .
an exhibition in dortmund unveils the touching and sometimes comical history of holiday wish lists . in some countries , christmas presents are exchanged on the morning of december 25 , while most europeans give gifts on the evening of the 24th .
no matter when they 're unwrapped , it 's hard to imagine christmas without presents . the tradition , however , is relatively new .
it was n't until the end of the 19th century that gift-giving was associated with christmas in germany .
before that , st. nicholas brought presents to well-behaved children on december 6 . with the advent of gifts , it was only inevitable that children would help the givers - real and imagined - out with wish lists . " the development of the christmas gift-giving tradition mainly had to do with the fact that more presents and toys were available as a result of industrialization , " historian isolde parussel told deutsche welle . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a christmas gift table may have looked like this in the 19th century of course , not everyone could afford the new toys , but that did n't keep children from writing out their wishes . old toys made just like new parussel is behind the exhibition " … bring us many nice things , " which is currently on show at the museum of art and cultural history in the western german city of dortmund .
over 100 holiday wish lists are on display , along with decorative gift tables , toys and festive christmas trees from the past century . most of the items were collected from private households following a request published in german newspapers . some of the wish lists are addressed to st. nicholas or santa claus , but many were written to the ' christkind ' - a sprite-like child , usually depicted with blond hair and angelic wings . in one list from 1899 , a young girl hoped for " a dress for -lsb- my doll -rsb- fraenzchen , a set of colored pencils , a sailor 's hat for me " but also " calling cards and a tube of calodont tooth paste . "
at the end of the 19th century , tooth paste in tubes was extremely modern - something extraordinary even for a little girl . as the end of the girl 's letter reveals , gifts were n't necessarily expected to be new .
" and then , dear christkind , -lsb- my dolls -rsb- siegfried and dori need to be taken to the hospital .
dori 's hair is growing very sparsely on her head and her limbs are very droopy .
both of these things need to be fixed , " wrote the girl . despite having to organize presents for so many children , the christkind occasionally found time to write back .
one such letter - composed on a typewriter and dated christmas eve , 1911 - is included in the exhibition ; parussel suspects , of course , that it was written by the parents .
" the angels say that you and -lsb- your sister -rsb- staenzerl were n't very good doll mothers this year , " read the letter : " under these circumstances , entrusting you with a real baby seems to be too much of a responsibility . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : isolde parussel curated the dortmund exhibition apparently , the girls had wished for a sibling - a gift their parents apparently were n't yet willing to provide . some things do n't change the letters and lists offer insights into the everyday lives of various generations .
children from the post-world war ii generation wanted nothing more than a warm hat or a notebook for school .
one short generation later , one girl asked for a knee-length skirt , according to the trend of the time . the most recent wish list in the collection is from 2008 .
jascha from dortmund had cut out pictures from catalogues - complete with price tags - to illustrate his list , which mainly consisted of electronics . jascha 's wishes are expensive , but , when taking the standard of living into account , they 're not necessarily more valuable than the things children asked for a century ago , said parussel . " you ca n't necessarily say that this child is just focused on consumption , " she said .
he put just as much effort into his wish list , writing it neatly and decorating it with colored pencils . " author : sola huelsewig -lrb- kjb -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de toys r ' scarce in german stores toy makers and retailers in germany could n't be happier : christmas shoppers appear to have a near insatiable appetite for toys .
products from traditional european toymakers like lego and playmobil are in high demand .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- racism controversy dampens holland 's sinterklaas tradition children across europe eagerly await the arrival of st. nicholas on december 6 .
but in holland , the tradition has racist implications that the dutch are n't quite willing to give up .
-lrb- 05.12.2010 -rrb- ' dear christkind ' : a german post office answers christmas letters in the small town of engelskirchen , thousands of letters from around the world arrive at a seasonal christmas post office , all addressed to one person .
for over 20 years , postal workers have written back .
-lrb- 24.12.2009 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
the podcast 's homepage somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
all i want for christmas is ... -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de christmas -pipe- 13.12.2010 all i want for christmas is ... großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children have left instructions for christmas gift-givers for over a century toothpaste may seem like an unusual item on a christmas wish list - but over a century ago , it was n't so strange .
an exhibition in dortmund unveils the touching and sometimes comical history of holiday wish lists . in some countries , christmas presents are exchanged on the morning of december 25 , while most europeans give gifts on the evening of the 24th .
no matter when they 're unwrapped , it 's hard to imagine christmas without presents . the tradition , however , is relatively new .
it was n't until the end of the 19th century that gift-giving was associated with christmas in germany .
before that , st. nicholas brought presents to well-behaved children on december 6 . with the advent of gifts , it was only inevitable that children would help the givers - real and imagined - out with wish lists . " the development of the christmas gift-giving tradition mainly had to do with the fact that more presents and toys were available as a result of industrialization , " historian isolde parussel told deutsche welle . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a christmas gift table may have looked like this in the 19th century of course , not everyone could afford the new toys , but that did n't keep children from writing out their wishes . old toys made just like new parussel is behind the exhibition " … bring us many nice things , " which is currently on show at the museum of art and cultural history in the western german city of dortmund .
over 100 holiday wish lists are on display , along with decorative gift tables , toys and festive christmas trees from the past century . most of the items were collected from private households following a request published in german newspapers . some of the wish lists are addressed to st. nicholas or santa claus , but many were written to the ' christkind ' - a sprite-like child , usually depicted with blond hair and angelic wings . in one list from 1899 , a young girl hoped for " a dress for -lsb- my doll -rsb- fraenzchen , a set of colored pencils , a sailor 's hat for me " but also " calling cards and a tube of calodont tooth paste . "
at the end of the 19th century , tooth paste in tubes was extremely modern - something extraordinary even for a little girl . as the end of the girl 's letter reveals , gifts were n't necessarily expected to be new .
" and then , dear christkind , -lsb- my dolls -rsb- siegfried and dori need to be taken to the hospital .
dori 's hair is growing very sparsely on her head and her limbs are very droopy .
both of these things need to be fixed , " wrote the girl . despite having to organize presents for so many children , the christkind occasionally found time to write back .
one such letter - composed on a typewriter and dated christmas eve , 1911 - is included in the exhibition ; parussel suspects , of course , that it was written by the parents .
" the angels say that you and -lsb- your sister -rsb- staenzerl were n't very good doll mothers this year , " read the letter : " under these circumstances , entrusting you with a real baby seems to be too much of a responsibility . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : isolde parussel curated the dortmund exhibition apparently , the girls had wished for a sibling - a gift their parents apparently were n't yet willing to provide . some things do n't change the letters and lists offer insights into the everyday lives of various generations .
children from the post-world war ii generation wanted nothing more than a warm hat or a notebook for school .
one short generation later , one girl asked for a knee-length skirt , according to the trend of the time . the most recent wish list in the collection is from 2008 .
jascha from dortmund had cut out pictures from catalogues - complete with price tags - to illustrate his list , which mainly consisted of electronics . jascha 's wishes are expensive , but , when taking the standard of living into account , they 're not necessarily more valuable than the things children asked for a century ago , said parussel . " you ca n't necessarily say that this child is just focused on consumption , " she said .
he put just as much effort into his wish list , writing it neatly and decorating it with colored pencils . " author : sola huelsewig -lrb- kjb -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de toys r ' scarce in german stores toy makers and retailers in germany could n't be happier : christmas shoppers appear to have a near insatiable appetite for toys .
products from traditional european toymakers like lego and playmobil are in high demand .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- racism controversy dampens holland 's sinterklaas tradition children across europe eagerly await the arrival of st. nicholas on december 6 .
but in holland , the tradition has racist implications that the dutch are n't quite willing to give up .
-lrb- 05.12.2010 -rrb- ' dear christkind ' : a german post office answers christmas letters in the small town of engelskirchen , thousands of letters from around the world arrive at a seasonal christmas post office , all addressed to one person .
for over 20 years , postal workers have written back .
-lrb- 24.12.2009 -rrb- feedback do you have a special christmas tradition in your family ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
literature looking for a good book ?
book review : rabinowich 's ' splithead ' depicts east-west divide visit the new books in german website podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 11 - jupiter jones are moving on up subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press opinion : wikileaks ' latest release is a diplomatic waterloo africa -pipe- 13.12.2010 wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell gained information on all aspects of nigeria 's oil business the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria . leaked us diplomatic cables from last year , carried by a number of international newspapers and magazines , show that royal dutch shell - among the major oil producers in nigeria - have infiltrated key nigerian ministries and have been using links to us officials to gain information on rival oil companies in the country , and the movements and objectives of militants in the niger delta region .
shell 's level of penetration into the governmental structure of nigeria - one of the world 's largest oil exporters - have given the company access to politicians and decision-makers at the highest level , providing it with insider knowledge of all movements and negotiations within those ministries .
according to dr. heinz jockers , a nigeria expert and a member of the eu election observation mission to nigeria , shell has personnel in the finance , interior , national planning , defense , environment , energy and foreign affairs ministries as well as influence over a number of presidential advisers , parliamentarians , governors , and high-ranked tribal rulers .
high level infiltration in major ministeries and oil-producing states " shell operatives - although they are unofficially employed by the company - have infiltrated the majority of the most important ministries in the nigerian government , " jockers told deutsche welle .
" they will of course also have their people in the ministries of the main oil-producing states . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell used nigerian sources to help secure its interests jockers said that the main aim of the shell operatives would be to gain information on everything which could in one way or the other affect the company 's business .
" areas of interest for these people would be the position of other competitors , be it companies or countries ; their offers regarding oil deals in nigeria , the pricing scale for oil in the country , and the level of governmental support for security , " he said .
the leaked cables show that shell had obtained information that nigeria had invited bids for oil concessions from china and was concerned at the possibility of increased competition from the people 's republic .
they also show that shell executives requested confirmation from us officials on russian gas giant gazprom 's interest in nigeria after information was obtained from ministerial channels .
jockers added that the practice of infiltration was so widespread that it is highly likely that other large companies have embedded personnel in governmental offices as this was the only way that advantages in business could be gained in nigeria .
" these could include : julius berger , chevron , hochtief , siemens , peugeot , haliburton , and mercedes , " he said .
" you have to remember : nigeria is a chaotic and highly corrupt country .
to do business there , you have to play the game . "
shell contacted us officials over delta militant threat bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell wanted us help with getting information on militants ann pickard , shell 's top executive in nigeria , was also revealed to have spoken to us officials in 2008 about the threat of militants in the niger delta which had , at its peak in 2006 , shut down a quarter of nigeria 's oil output .
an amnesty in 2009 ended the acts of sabotage being carried out on vulnerable pipelines and platforms , such as shell 's soku gas facility which had been the target of militant rocket attacks at the height of the so-called oil war .
" shell had been the main target of attacks by militants since the early 1990s , " heinrich bergstresser , a nigeria expert at the german institute of global and area studies -lrb- giga -rrb- in hamburg , told deutsche welle .
" the sabotages and attacks on shell 's installations , among others , were and are executed not just by militants but also orchestrated by complicit agents within the oil companies .
they benefit from the attacks because these people are very often also in charge of managing the payment of compensation which offers the opportunity to keep certain amounts of the payment for themselves . "
the cable dispatches from 2008 showed that shell 's pickard had contacted the us consulate in lagos with an offer to share " intelligence " on militant activity in exchange for information on a shipment of surface-to-air missiles which had allegedly been destined for nigerian militant groups in the delta region .
cables hint at shell 's involvement with local godfathers the cables describe how pickard was also unconvinced that a certain governor in the delta region " lacked the connections among rivers state militant leaders to successfully coopt them as the governors in delta and bayelsa states have done with militants in their states , " and that she believed the clash between the military and militants was " a proxy war for ongoing disputes " between rival governors .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : playing both sides in the delta struggle is a dangerous game this section of the cable transcripts hints at the possibility that shell has been attempting to use its influence to control local leaders , a comlicated and dangerous practice according to heinrich bergstresser .
" shell is playing with fire if it has or had any connection with the governors and militants , " he said .
" on the one hand , the oil companies can not control the governors but on the other hand they can try to persuade them to act in favor of the companies and in their own interest .
i am sure that they are paying certain amounts to the governors but that does not guarantee anything . "
bergstresser added that very often the oil companies find themselves caught between a rock and a hard place .
" the militias have emancipated themselves from their political godfathers and have started their own business of attacks and kidnappings so the oil companies find themselves sandwiched between profit-making , being threatened by militias , and keeping very close relationships with the federal government . "
author : nick amies editor : rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de illegal arms shipments to nigeria raise stakes ahead of 2011 elections general elections in nigeria are still several months away , but tensions are rising with memories still fresh of the 2007 poll which saw widespread allegations of corruption , voter fraud and violence .
-lrb- 01.12.2010 -rrb- biafra war anniversary highlights nigeria ’ s uncertain future " biafra " was the taunt german children used for skinny kids in the late 60s - the term was synonymous with starvation .
it is now 40 years since the end of the biafra war , and nigeria 's future still hangs in the balance .
-lrb- 15.01.2010 -rrb- shell settles lawsuit over killing of nigerian activists european oil giant royal dutch shell has agreed to pay $ 15.5 million -lrb- 11.2 million euros -rrb- to the families of six nigerian activists executed in 1995 but has refused to accept any liability for the violence .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
podcast series kades , from one of nairobi 's largest slums , plays djb in shujaaz , a weekly radio show .
download the podcast international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press opinion : wikileaks ' latest release is a diplomatic waterloo africa -pipe- 13.12.2010 wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell gained information on all aspects of nigeria 's oil business the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria . leaked us diplomatic cables from last year , carried by a number of international newspapers and magazines , show that royal dutch shell - among the major oil producers in nigeria - have infiltrated key nigerian ministries and have been using links to us officials to gain information on rival oil companies in the country , and the movements and objectives of militants in the niger delta region .
shell 's level of penetration into the governmental structure of nigeria - one of the world 's largest oil exporters - have given the company access to politicians and decision-makers at the highest level , providing it with insider knowledge of all movements and negotiations within those ministries .
according to dr. heinz jockers , a nigeria expert and a member of the eu election observation mission to nigeria , shell has personnel in the finance , interior , national planning , defense , environment , energy and foreign affairs ministries as well as influence over a number of presidential advisers , parliamentarians , governors , and high-ranked tribal rulers .
high level infiltration in major ministeries and oil-producing states " shell operatives - although they are unofficially employed by the company - have infiltrated the majority of the most important ministries in the nigerian government , " jockers told deutsche welle .
" they will of course also have their people in the ministries of the main oil-producing states . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell used nigerian sources to help secure its interests jockers said that the main aim of the shell operatives would be to gain information on everything which could in one way or the other affect the company 's business .
" areas of interest for these people would be the position of other competitors , be it companies or countries ; their offers regarding oil deals in nigeria , the pricing scale for oil in the country , and the level of governmental support for security , " he said .
the leaked cables show that shell had obtained information that nigeria had invited bids for oil concessions from china and was concerned at the possibility of increased competition from the people 's republic .
they also show that shell executives requested confirmation from us officials on russian gas giant gazprom 's interest in nigeria after information was obtained from ministerial channels .
jockers added that the practice of infiltration was so widespread that it is highly likely that other large companies have embedded personnel in governmental offices as this was the only way that advantages in business could be gained in nigeria .
" these could include : julius berger , chevron , hochtief , siemens , peugeot , haliburton , and mercedes , " he said .
" you have to remember : nigeria is a chaotic and highly corrupt country .
to do business there , you have to play the game . "
shell contacted us officials over delta militant threat bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell wanted us help with getting information on militants ann pickard , shell 's top executive in nigeria , was also revealed to have spoken to us officials in 2008 about the threat of militants in the niger delta which had , at its peak in 2006 , shut down a quarter of nigeria 's oil output .
an amnesty in 2009 ended the acts of sabotage being carried out on vulnerable pipelines and platforms , such as shell 's soku gas facility which had been the target of militant rocket attacks at the height of the so-called oil war .
" shell had been the main target of attacks by militants since the early 1990s , " heinrich bergstresser , a nigeria expert at the german institute of global and area studies -lrb- giga -rrb- in hamburg , told deutsche welle .
" the sabotages and attacks on shell 's installations , among others , were and are executed not just by militants but also orchestrated by complicit agents within the oil companies .
they benefit from the attacks because these people are very often also in charge of managing the payment of compensation which offers the opportunity to keep certain amounts of the payment for themselves . "
the cable dispatches from 2008 showed that shell 's pickard had contacted the us consulate in lagos with an offer to share " intelligence " on militant activity in exchange for information on a shipment of surface-to-air missiles which had allegedly been destined for nigerian militant groups in the delta region .
cables hint at shell 's involvement with local godfathers the cables describe how pickard was also unconvinced that a certain governor in the delta region " lacked the connections among rivers state militant leaders to successfully coopt them as the governors in delta and bayelsa states have done with militants in their states , " and that she believed the clash between the military and militants was " a proxy war for ongoing disputes " between rival governors .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : playing both sides in the delta struggle is a dangerous game this section of the cable transcripts hints at the possibility that shell has been attempting to use its influence to control local leaders , a comlicated and dangerous practice according to heinrich bergstresser .
" shell is playing with fire if it has or had any connection with the governors and militants , " he said .
" on the one hand , the oil companies can not control the governors but on the other hand they can try to persuade them to act in favor of the companies and in their own interest .
i am sure that they are paying certain amounts to the governors but that does not guarantee anything . "
bergstresser added that very often the oil companies find themselves caught between a rock and a hard place .
" the militias have emancipated themselves from their political godfathers and have started their own business of attacks and kidnappings so the oil companies find themselves sandwiched between profit-making , being threatened by militias , and keeping very close relationships with the federal government . "
author : nick amies editor : rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de illegal arms shipments to nigeria raise stakes ahead of 2011 elections general elections in nigeria are still several months away , but tensions are rising with memories still fresh of the 2007 poll which saw widespread allegations of corruption , voter fraud and violence .
-lrb- 01.12.2010 -rrb- biafra war anniversary highlights nigeria ’ s uncertain future " biafra " was the taunt german children used for skinny kids in the late 60s - the term was synonymous with starvation .
it is now 40 years since the end of the biafra war , and nigeria 's future still hangs in the balance .
-lrb- 15.01.2010 -rrb- shell settles lawsuit over killing of nigerian activists european oil giant royal dutch shell has agreed to pay $ 15.5 million -lrb- 11.2 million euros -rrb- to the families of six nigerian activists executed in 1995 but has refused to accept any liability for the violence .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
wto ruling the world trade organization rules that china 's export restrictions on raw materials are illegal .
watch the video cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
podcast series a german musician brings change with song and crowd funding .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press opinion : wikileaks ' latest release is a diplomatic waterloo africa -pipe- 13.12.2010 wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell gained information on all aspects of nigeria 's oil business the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria . leaked us diplomatic cables from last year , carried by a number of international newspapers and magazines , show that royal dutch shell - among the major oil producers in nigeria - have infiltrated key nigerian ministries and have been using links to us officials to gain information on rival oil companies in the country , and the movements and objectives of militants in the niger delta region .
shell 's level of penetration into the governmental structure of nigeria - one of the world 's largest oil exporters - have given the company access to politicians and decision-makers at the highest level , providing it with insider knowledge of all movements and negotiations within those ministries .
according to dr. heinz jockers , a nigeria expert and a member of the eu election observation mission to nigeria , shell has personnel in the finance , interior , national planning , defense , environment , energy and foreign affairs ministries as well as influence over a number of presidential advisers , parliamentarians , governors , and high-ranked tribal rulers .
high level infiltration in major ministeries and oil-producing states " shell operatives - although they are unofficially employed by the company - have infiltrated the majority of the most important ministries in the nigerian government , " jockers told deutsche welle .
" they will of course also have their people in the ministries of the main oil-producing states . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell used nigerian sources to help secure its interests jockers said that the main aim of the shell operatives would be to gain information on everything which could in one way or the other affect the company 's business .
" areas of interest for these people would be the position of other competitors , be it companies or countries ; their offers regarding oil deals in nigeria , the pricing scale for oil in the country , and the level of governmental support for security , " he said .
the leaked cables show that shell had obtained information that nigeria had invited bids for oil concessions from china and was concerned at the possibility of increased competition from the people 's republic .
they also show that shell executives requested confirmation from us officials on russian gas giant gazprom 's interest in nigeria after information was obtained from ministerial channels .
jockers added that the practice of infiltration was so widespread that it is highly likely that other large companies have embedded personnel in governmental offices as this was the only way that advantages in business could be gained in nigeria .
" these could include : julius berger , chevron , hochtief , siemens , peugeot , haliburton , and mercedes , " he said .
" you have to remember : nigeria is a chaotic and highly corrupt country .
to do business there , you have to play the game . "
shell contacted us officials over delta militant threat bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell wanted us help with getting information on militants ann pickard , shell 's top executive in nigeria , was also revealed to have spoken to us officials in 2008 about the threat of militants in the niger delta which had , at its peak in 2006 , shut down a quarter of nigeria 's oil output .
an amnesty in 2009 ended the acts of sabotage being carried out on vulnerable pipelines and platforms , such as shell 's soku gas facility which had been the target of militant rocket attacks at the height of the so-called oil war .
" shell had been the main target of attacks by militants since the early 1990s , " heinrich bergstresser , a nigeria expert at the german institute of global and area studies -lrb- giga -rrb- in hamburg , told deutsche welle .
" the sabotages and attacks on shell 's installations , among others , were and are executed not just by militants but also orchestrated by complicit agents within the oil companies .
they benefit from the attacks because these people are very often also in charge of managing the payment of compensation which offers the opportunity to keep certain amounts of the payment for themselves . "
the cable dispatches from 2008 showed that shell 's pickard had contacted the us consulate in lagos with an offer to share " intelligence " on militant activity in exchange for information on a shipment of surface-to-air missiles which had allegedly been destined for nigerian militant groups in the delta region .
cables hint at shell 's involvement with local godfathers the cables describe how pickard was also unconvinced that a certain governor in the delta region " lacked the connections among rivers state militant leaders to successfully coopt them as the governors in delta and bayelsa states have done with militants in their states , " and that she believed the clash between the military and militants was " a proxy war for ongoing disputes " between rival governors .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : playing both sides in the delta struggle is a dangerous game this section of the cable transcripts hints at the possibility that shell has been attempting to use its influence to control local leaders , a comlicated and dangerous practice according to heinrich bergstresser .
" shell is playing with fire if it has or had any connection with the governors and militants , " he said .
" on the one hand , the oil companies can not control the governors but on the other hand they can try to persuade them to act in favor of the companies and in their own interest .
i am sure that they are paying certain amounts to the governors but that does not guarantee anything . "
bergstresser added that very often the oil companies find themselves caught between a rock and a hard place .
" the militias have emancipated themselves from their political godfathers and have started their own business of attacks and kidnappings so the oil companies find themselves sandwiched between profit-making , being threatened by militias , and keeping very close relationships with the federal government . "
author : nick amies editor : rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de illegal arms shipments to nigeria raise stakes ahead of 2011 elections general elections in nigeria are still several months away , but tensions are rising with memories still fresh of the 2007 poll which saw widespread allegations of corruption , voter fraud and violence .
-lrb- 01.12.2010 -rrb- biafra war anniversary highlights nigeria ’ s uncertain future " biafra " was the taunt german children used for skinny kids in the late 60s - the term was synonymous with starvation .
it is now 40 years since the end of the biafra war , and nigeria 's future still hangs in the balance .
-lrb- 15.01.2010 -rrb- shell settles lawsuit over killing of nigerian activists european oil giant royal dutch shell has agreed to pay $ 15.5 million -lrb- 11.2 million euros -rrb- to the families of six nigerian activists executed in 1995 but has refused to accept any liability for the violence .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
tornado terror america 's south is in shock following the havoc wreaked by a series of deadly tornadoes .
watch the video focus on syria rattling a regime in-depth coverage of the violent protests against the syrian government .
focus on libya libya 's uprising dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
podcast series a london teen helps integrate autistic adults into society .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stress tests doubted as ireland suffers from bank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.12.2010 stress tests doubted as ireland suffers from bank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : are the eu 's bank stress tests accurate enough ?
ireland is floundering under the expense of its bank bailout , but irish banks passed the eu-wide stress tests in july .
some now dismiss the tests as nothing more than a ' placebo ' for the market . when the eu-wide bank stress test results were made public in july , skepticism soon followed .
after all , just seven of 91 banks failed , leading some to believe the tests had been too easy .
none of ireland 's banks failed .
yet the country floundered under the sheer expense of bailing out and reforming its financial system .
in private , the chief financial officer of a european bank recently referred to the stress tests conducted over the past year as nothing more than a " placebo for the market . "
gerhard hofmann , a board member of the national association of german cooperative banks -lrb- bvr -rrb- , is skeptical about the accuracy of the tests .
he is n't aware of any cases in which they " actually had a high level of revelatory value , or a high level of predictive power in regards to future problem areas , " he told deutsche welle .
" what is put under stress today is most likely not tomorrow 's problem . "
first public results bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german financial regulator bafin carried out stress tests in germany according to benjamin fischer , a spokesman for german financial regulator bafin , three german banks were subjected to the first european union-wide stress tests in 2009 .
those results were not published .
the number then jumped to 15 in 2010 , although one bank was the subsidiary of an italian bank and was tested by that country 's financial regulator .
the results of these tests were published .
" it was a novelty that the results were made public , " fischer told deutsche welle .
" naturally , it made working on the stress tests more difficult because the attention was significantly more present . "
stress tests , according to fischer , are hypothetical instruments normally used in the banking industry .
" banks and regulators use stress tests as a kind of early-warning system to identify possible weaknesses ahead of time , " he said .
each eu nation carried out a test prescribed by the committee of european banking supervisors -lrb- cebs -rrb- .
while another stress test is likely in 2011 , it remains to be seen whether or not results will be made public .
a spokesman for cebs declined to comment .
according to the central bank of ireland , the irish stress tests were carried out with higher loan loss rates being applied than actually required by cebs .
still , ireland 's finances buckled and its debt rating plummeted as the country scrambled to save banks teetering on the edge of collapse .
ireland will now receive a bailout from the eu and the international monetary fund worth 85 billion euros -lrb- $ 112 billion -rrb- .
banks tested at status quo michael schroeder , an economist with the centre for european economic research in mannheim , said he does n't believe the irish crisis invalidates the cebs stress tests .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : patrick honohan 's central bank of ireland carried out the stress tests in ireland " the banks were tested at status quo ... and at that point they had already passed on some of their problems to the government , " he told deutsche welle .
each individual bank was placed under artificial stress , schroeder says , but a different picture , he argues , would likely emerge if the pressure were applied system-wide .
" the problem with the financial crisis was that many banks had similar portfolios and reacted similarly – in that they wanted to get rid of their portfolios , " he said .
" i do n't believe the tests depicted the crisis situation with complete accuracy . "
schroeder advocates a method of risk analysis called covar -lrb- conditional value at risk -rrb- , which is capable of simulating " how the portfolio of a bank reacts when there is a shock in all other banks . "
in other words , covar can be used to gain insight into chain reactions throughout a financial system .
it is gaining support throughout the financial world , according to schroeder .
in general , he believes , transparency in stress testing is a worthy objective .
" there was a lot of discussion about whether to publicize the results , " schroeder said .
" if the information is reliable and accurately represents specific problems then , yes , i would publicize it .
those who are active in the market and deal in stocks and investment on a large scale should know about it . "
market supplanted by european central bank one possible pitfall is that stress testing can backfire if publicized results turn out to be inaccurate .
bankers are currently fretting over whether ireland and other troubled eu countries will be able to fully repay government bonds .
to play it safe , they often turn to the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to deposit their assets and secure lines of credit .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future of the euro is linked with that of ireland fidel helmer of the hauck & aufhauser bank says industry-wide mistrust affects all players .
banks lend less among themselves , and the supply and demand for money is routed over the ecb instead of the open market .
" i think that deutsche bank , for instance , is under excellent leadership and will fetch excellent results , " he told deutsche welle .
nevertheless , the value of the bank 's stock took a nose dive this year .
that development is something helmer directly attributes to the cebs stress tests .
he said the tests were questionable and so far-reaching that they cast doubt even on healthy institutions .
author : gerhard schneibel / michael braun editor : john blau send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu divided over euro bonds , no increase in bailout funds there was no agreement on plans for joint euro bonds at a meeting of the eurozone finance ministers in brussels on monday , where the eurogroup decided against any increase in the rescue fund for debt-saddled countries .
-lrb- 06.12.2010 -rrb- euro is ' credible , ' not in crisis : trichet ecb president jean-claude trichet has moved to calm jittery financial markets by calling the euro ' credible ' and agreeing to continue the bank 's emergency bond-buying program to prop the struggling eurozone .
-lrb- 03.12.2010 -rrb- irish central bank chief expects ' substantial eu loan ' the head of ireland 's central bank has said the country will likely receive a multi-billion-euro loan to help save the country from financial meltdown .
this comes as an eu / imf mission is in dublin for emergency talks .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- ireland announces sweeping austerity measures to secure bailout the irish government has given details of its most stringent austerity plan ever , aimed at saving 15 billion euros over the next four years .
the cuts are necessary to secure a multi-billion-euro international bailout .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- ireland announces drastic budget cuts as eu bailout is officially approved european union finance ministers formally approved the 85-billion-euro rescue loan for crisis-stricken ireland on tuesday as the country announced the toughest domestic budget in its history .
-lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the irish government unveils a crisis budget -lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- eu leaders want ecb to buy government bonds -lrb- 02.12.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1494 : spain and portugal divide the world dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stress tests doubted as ireland suffers from bank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.12.2010 stress tests doubted as ireland suffers from bank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : are the eu 's bank stress tests accurate enough ?
ireland is floundering under the expense of its bank bailout , but irish banks passed the eu-wide stress tests in july .
some now dismiss the tests as nothing more than a ' placebo ' for the market . when the eu-wide bank stress test results were made public in july , skepticism soon followed .
after all , just seven of 91 banks failed , leading some to believe the tests had been too easy .
none of ireland 's banks failed .
yet the country floundered under the sheer expense of bailing out and reforming its financial system .
in private , the chief financial officer of a european bank recently referred to the stress tests conducted over the past year as nothing more than a " placebo for the market . "
gerhard hofmann , a board member of the national association of german cooperative banks -lrb- bvr -rrb- , is skeptical about the accuracy of the tests .
he is n't aware of any cases in which they " actually had a high level of revelatory value , or a high level of predictive power in regards to future problem areas , " he told deutsche welle .
" what is put under stress today is most likely not tomorrow 's problem . "
first public results bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german financial regulator bafin carried out stress tests in germany according to benjamin fischer , a spokesman for german financial regulator bafin , three german banks were subjected to the first european union-wide stress tests in 2009 .
those results were not published .
the number then jumped to 15 in 2010 , although one bank was the subsidiary of an italian bank and was tested by that country 's financial regulator .
the results of these tests were published .
" it was a novelty that the results were made public , " fischer told deutsche welle .
" naturally , it made working on the stress tests more difficult because the attention was significantly more present . "
stress tests , according to fischer , are hypothetical instruments normally used in the banking industry .
" banks and regulators use stress tests as a kind of early-warning system to identify possible weaknesses ahead of time , " he said .
each eu nation carried out a test prescribed by the committee of european banking supervisors -lrb- cebs -rrb- .
while another stress test is likely in 2011 , it remains to be seen whether or not results will be made public .
a spokesman for cebs declined to comment .
according to the central bank of ireland , the irish stress tests were carried out with higher loan loss rates being applied than actually required by cebs .
still , ireland 's finances buckled and its debt rating plummeted as the country scrambled to save banks teetering on the edge of collapse .
ireland will now receive a bailout from the eu and the international monetary fund worth 85 billion euros -lrb- $ 112 billion -rrb- .
banks tested at status quo michael schroeder , an economist with the centre for european economic research in mannheim , said he does n't believe the irish crisis invalidates the cebs stress tests .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : patrick honohan 's central bank of ireland carried out the stress tests in ireland " the banks were tested at status quo ... and at that point they had already passed on some of their problems to the government , " he told deutsche welle .
each individual bank was placed under artificial stress , schroeder says , but a different picture , he argues , would likely emerge if the pressure were applied system-wide .
" the problem with the financial crisis was that many banks had similar portfolios and reacted similarly – in that they wanted to get rid of their portfolios , " he said .
" i do n't believe the tests depicted the crisis situation with complete accuracy . "
schroeder advocates a method of risk analysis called covar -lrb- conditional value at risk -rrb- , which is capable of simulating " how the portfolio of a bank reacts when there is a shock in all other banks . "
in other words , covar can be used to gain insight into chain reactions throughout a financial system .
it is gaining support throughout the financial world , according to schroeder .
in general , he believes , transparency in stress testing is a worthy objective .
" there was a lot of discussion about whether to publicize the results , " schroeder said .
" if the information is reliable and accurately represents specific problems then , yes , i would publicize it .
those who are active in the market and deal in stocks and investment on a large scale should know about it . "
market supplanted by european central bank one possible pitfall is that stress testing can backfire if publicized results turn out to be inaccurate .
bankers are currently fretting over whether ireland and other troubled eu countries will be able to fully repay government bonds .
to play it safe , they often turn to the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to deposit their assets and secure lines of credit .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future of the euro is linked with that of ireland fidel helmer of the hauck & aufhauser bank says industry-wide mistrust affects all players .
banks lend less among themselves , and the supply and demand for money is routed over the ecb instead of the open market .
" i think that deutsche bank , for instance , is under excellent leadership and will fetch excellent results , " he told deutsche welle .
nevertheless , the value of the bank 's stock took a nose dive this year .
that development is something helmer directly attributes to the cebs stress tests .
he said the tests were questionable and so far-reaching that they cast doubt even on healthy institutions .
author : gerhard schneibel / michael braun editor : john blau send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu divided over euro bonds , no increase in bailout funds there was no agreement on plans for joint euro bonds at a meeting of the eurozone finance ministers in brussels on monday , where the eurogroup decided against any increase in the rescue fund for debt-saddled countries .
-lrb- 06.12.2010 -rrb- euro is ' credible , ' not in crisis : trichet ecb president jean-claude trichet has moved to calm jittery financial markets by calling the euro ' credible ' and agreeing to continue the bank 's emergency bond-buying program to prop the struggling eurozone .
-lrb- 03.12.2010 -rrb- irish central bank chief expects ' substantial eu loan ' the head of ireland 's central bank has said the country will likely receive a multi-billion-euro loan to help save the country from financial meltdown .
this comes as an eu / imf mission is in dublin for emergency talks .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- ireland announces sweeping austerity measures to secure bailout the irish government has given details of its most stringent austerity plan ever , aimed at saving 15 billion euros over the next four years .
the cuts are necessary to secure a multi-billion-euro international bailout .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- ireland announces drastic budget cuts as eu bailout is officially approved european union finance ministers formally approved the 85-billion-euro rescue loan for crisis-stricken ireland on tuesday as the country announced the toughest domestic budget in its history .
-lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the irish government unveils a crisis budget -lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- eu leaders want ecb to buy government bonds -lrb- 02.12.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live stock exchange today in history 1841 : the birth of mass tourism dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : online vigilantes have taken to their keyboards following the arrest in the netherlands of two teenagers involved in last week 's distributed denial of service attacks against mastercard , lawyers tell young hackers to be aware of the law . on saturday , a second dutch teenager , 19 , was arrested for having been part of a cyberattack that targeted the dutch public prosecutor 's website .
the prosecutor 's site became a target after the dutch prosecutor arrested another dutch teenager , 16 , who had joined an online " hacktivist " attack in the name of wikileaks .
this is just the latest in a series of attacks against perceived enemies of wikileaks largely by a group of its supporters , a shadowy online vigilante group that calls itself anonymous .
" any individual , organization , corporation , and / or government entity which supports freedom of speech and a free internet is an ally of anonymous , " the organization said on its website . " if you work to suppress freedom of expression and a free internet your efforts will be halted . "
the group is more like a semi-controlled herd rather than a traditional heirarchical organization - it does not have clear leadership or direction .
previously , it targeted the church of scientology and the website of the recording industry association of america .
but now that some have been caught for their alleged crimes , it may serve as a legal warning shot to those who feel that they can hide in this hacktivist huddle .
misused technology this time around , in response to the wikileaks case , anonymous followers have been using a computer application known as low orbit ion canon -lrb- loic -rrb- .
using this software , these hacktivists , managed to temporarily disable a number of major financial companý websites , including mastercard 's .
the software used in the attacks was originally designed to help protect websites by testing their penetrability , but when pointed at an unsuspecting site it has the reverse effect .
when used en masse , it is a crude but simple way to create a ddos , or distributed denial of service attack , which floods websites with high level of artificial traffic , making them temporarily slow or more often , unusable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wikileaks founder julian assange , has neither condoned nor condemned the denial of service attacks eddy willems , the spokesperson for tthe european expert group for it security told deutsche welle that there is n't much to the application , which he describes as a " pretty screen " with some buttons to press .
yet the flood module , which crafts packets to send to the target to deal with , can be quite debilitating .
" when you get enough people doing this , " he said , " something has to give .
in this case it 's the targets ' websites . "
the war is not over if anonymous is to be believed , they will keep on bringing these kinds of online attacks as long as there are enough wikileaks supporters on board to bring it about .
as far as they are concerned , it is a matter of principle .
but legal experts are now warning hot-blooded young activists to be aware of where their principle might land them , for to use loic to launch an attack is to misuse it , and that can have very serious consequences .
" users are putting themselves at risk , " willems continued .
" they are not real cyber criminals and they do n't realize that they could be sent to prison for this kind of thing . "
this is the same type of attack that was used against estonia in 2007 , although the estonian one did not involve the use of a software application , but rather through more organized botnets .
estonian government officials suspected that the russian government was somehow involved in attacking estonian financial and political websites , but in the end , only one estonian citizen was punished , who had to pay a relatively small fine .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mastercard was one of the hacktivists ' targets in some cases , finding users is not difficult as was the case of the 19-year-old dutch teenager who was arrested on saturday - as he had neglected to mask his ip address , making it relatively simple for law enforcement to find him .
depending on the protective measures users take , its perpetrators can be easily traced within the space of a day or even just a couple of hours , something which begs the question as to why anonymous has chosen the approach it has .
one suggestion is that the loic application is easy to come by and easy to use , while another is simply that hacktivists are naive .
risky business while the first dutch teenager was released , the younger boy remains in detention over what a spokesman for the dutch prosecutors described as potentially more serious violations .
some observers believe the two boys will be among a handful likely to be singled out and held up as a deterrent to more ddos attacks of this nature .
however , izaz ali , a british attorney specializing in internet law , told deutsche welle that in the case of britain there could be more wide-spread arrests .
" we 're talking here about the computer misuse act , " he said .
" the government will be forcing the police to look into this . "
using loic in a similar fashion may also violate similar statutes in germany and the netherlands .
damage limitation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future for blue-eyed hackers ?
contrary to some reports , ali says it is not illegal to download the software , as long as it is not used for anything other than it was originally intended .
" it is no different from using microsoft word to write something that causes damage to someone else , a computer virus for example . "
damage is the main issue here - if these attacks were simply a case of tit-for-tat that did not affect the possibility to legitimately use affected sites , the lawyer says it would be a different story .
in other words , ali advocates actual old-fashioned street protests to protest their cause in time-honored style .
" do it the old way , " he said , adding that these kinds of modern cyber attacks are harmful to people who might even share the same views .
" they see they are showing people that the leaks are a good thing , but they are going to cause problems for a lot of people , and this is a bad thing . "
reporter : tamsin walker editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- dutch police arrest hacker over alleged cyber attacks hackers have been waging cyber war on the websites of opponents of wikileaks , saying they 're fighting for a " free and open " internet .
dutch police have arrested a teenager accused of taking part in the attacks .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts contrary to oft-stated claims , the wikileaks cables show no huge credibility gap between official us policies and what diplomats write in confidential cables , say experts .
that doesn ’ t hold true for some other countries .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- australia offers support to wikileaks founder , operation payback begins canberra announced it will offer consular support to wikileaks founder julian assange who 's being held in britain .
meanwhile , hackers shut down the web sites of companies that cut business ties with wikileaks .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- feedback what should happen to those who perpetrate denial of service attacks ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : online vigilantes have taken to their keyboards following the arrest in the netherlands of two teenagers involved in last week 's distributed denial of service attacks against mastercard , lawyers tell young hackers to be aware of the law . on saturday , a second dutch teenager , 19 , was arrested for having been part of a cyberattack that targeted the dutch public prosecutor 's website .
the prosecutor 's site became a target after the dutch prosecutor arrested another dutch teenager , 16 , who had joined an online " hacktivist " attack in the name of wikileaks .
this is just the latest in a series of attacks against perceived enemies of wikileaks largely by a group of its supporters , a shadowy online vigilante group that calls itself anonymous .
" any individual , organization , corporation , and / or government entity which supports freedom of speech and a free internet is an ally of anonymous , " the organization said on its website . " if you work to suppress freedom of expression and a free internet your efforts will be halted . "
the group is more like a semi-controlled herd rather than a traditional heirarchical organization - it does not have clear leadership or direction .
previously , it targeted the church of scientology and the website of the recording industry association of america .
but now that some have been caught for their alleged crimes , it may serve as a legal warning shot to those who feel that they can hide in this hacktivist huddle .
misused technology this time around , in response to the wikileaks case , anonymous followers have been using a computer application known as low orbit ion canon -lrb- loic -rrb- .
using this software , these hacktivists , managed to temporarily disable a number of major financial companý websites , including mastercard 's .
the software used in the attacks was originally designed to help protect websites by testing their penetrability , but when pointed at an unsuspecting site it has the reverse effect .
when used en masse , it is a crude but simple way to create a ddos , or distributed denial of service attack , which floods websites with high level of artificial traffic , making them temporarily slow or more often , unusable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wikileaks founder julian assange , has neither condoned nor condemned the denial of service attacks eddy willems , the spokesperson for tthe european expert group for it security told deutsche welle that there is n't much to the application , which he describes as a " pretty screen " with some buttons to press .
yet the flood module , which crafts packets to send to the target to deal with , can be quite debilitating .
" when you get enough people doing this , " he said , " something has to give .
in this case it 's the targets ' websites . "
the war is not over if anonymous is to be believed , they will keep on bringing these kinds of online attacks as long as there are enough wikileaks supporters on board to bring it about .
as far as they are concerned , it is a matter of principle .
but legal experts are now warning hot-blooded young activists to be aware of where their principle might land them , for to use loic to launch an attack is to misuse it , and that can have very serious consequences .
" users are putting themselves at risk , " willems continued .
" they are not real cyber criminals and they do n't realize that they could be sent to prison for this kind of thing . "
this is the same type of attack that was used against estonia in 2007 , although the estonian one did not involve the use of a software application , but rather through more organized botnets .
estonian government officials suspected that the russian government was somehow involved in attacking estonian financial and political websites , but in the end , only one estonian citizen was punished , who had to pay a relatively small fine .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mastercard was one of the hacktivists ' targets in some cases , finding users is not difficult as was the case of the 19-year-old dutch teenager who was arrested on saturday - as he had neglected to mask his ip address , making it relatively simple for law enforcement to find him .
depending on the protective measures users take , its perpetrators can be easily traced within the space of a day or even just a couple of hours , something which begs the question as to why anonymous has chosen the approach it has .
one suggestion is that the loic application is easy to come by and easy to use , while another is simply that hacktivists are naive .
risky business while the first dutch teenager was released , the younger boy remains in detention over what a spokesman for the dutch prosecutors described as potentially more serious violations .
some observers believe the two boys will be among a handful likely to be singled out and held up as a deterrent to more ddos attacks of this nature .
however , izaz ali , a british attorney specializing in internet law , told deutsche welle that in the case of britain there could be more wide-spread arrests .
" we 're talking here about the computer misuse act , " he said .
" the government will be forcing the police to look into this . "
using loic in a similar fashion may also violate similar statutes in germany and the netherlands .
damage limitation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future for blue-eyed hackers ?
contrary to some reports , ali says it is not illegal to download the software , as long as it is not used for anything other than it was originally intended .
" it is no different from using microsoft word to write something that causes damage to someone else , a computer virus for example . "
damage is the main issue here - if these attacks were simply a case of tit-for-tat that did not affect the possibility to legitimately use affected sites , the lawyer says it would be a different story .
in other words , ali advocates actual old-fashioned street protests to protest their cause in time-honored style .
" do it the old way , " he said , adding that these kinds of modern cyber attacks are harmful to people who might even share the same views .
" they see they are showing people that the leaks are a good thing , but they are going to cause problems for a lot of people , and this is a bad thing . "
reporter : tamsin walker editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- dutch police arrest hacker over alleged cyber attacks hackers have been waging cyber war on the websites of opponents of wikileaks , saying they 're fighting for a " free and open " internet .
dutch police have arrested a teenager accused of taking part in the attacks .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts contrary to oft-stated claims , the wikileaks cables show no huge credibility gap between official us policies and what diplomats write in confidential cables , say experts .
that doesn ’ t hold true for some other countries .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- australia offers support to wikileaks founder , operation payback begins canberra announced it will offer consular support to wikileaks founder julian assange who 's being held in britain .
meanwhile , hackers shut down the web sites of companies that cut business ties with wikileaks .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 11.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : online vigilantes have taken to their keyboards following the arrest in the netherlands of two teenagers involved in last week 's distributed denial of service attacks against mastercard , lawyers tell young hackers to be aware of the law . on saturday , a second dutch teenager , 19 , was arrested for having been part of a cyberattack that targeted the dutch public prosecutor 's website .
the prosecutor 's site became a target after the dutch prosecutor arrested another dutch teenager , 16 , who had joined an online " hacktivist " attack in the name of wikileaks .
this is just the latest in a series of attacks against perceived enemies of wikileaks largely by a group of its supporters , a shadowy online vigilante group that calls itself anonymous .
" any individual , organization , corporation , and / or government entity which supports freedom of speech and a free internet is an ally of anonymous , " the organization said on its website . " if you work to suppress freedom of expression and a free internet your efforts will be halted . "
the group is more like a semi-controlled herd rather than a traditional heirarchical organization - it does not have clear leadership or direction .
previously , it targeted the church of scientology and the website of the recording industry association of america .
but now that some have been caught for their alleged crimes , it may serve as a legal warning shot to those who feel that they can hide in this hacktivist huddle .
misused technology this time around , in response to the wikileaks case , anonymous followers have been using a computer application known as low orbit ion canon -lrb- loic -rrb- .
using this software , these hacktivists , managed to temporarily disable a number of major financial companý websites , including mastercard 's .
the software used in the attacks was originally designed to help protect websites by testing their penetrability , but when pointed at an unsuspecting site it has the reverse effect .
when used en masse , it is a crude but simple way to create a ddos , or distributed denial of service attack , which floods websites with high level of artificial traffic , making them temporarily slow or more often , unusable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wikileaks founder julian assange , has neither condoned nor condemned the denial of service attacks eddy willems , the spokesperson for tthe european expert group for it security told deutsche welle that there is n't much to the application , which he describes as a " pretty screen " with some buttons to press .
yet the flood module , which crafts packets to send to the target to deal with , can be quite debilitating .
" when you get enough people doing this , " he said , " something has to give .
in this case it 's the targets ' websites . "
the war is not over if anonymous is to be believed , they will keep on bringing these kinds of online attacks as long as there are enough wikileaks supporters on board to bring it about .
as far as they are concerned , it is a matter of principle .
but legal experts are now warning hot-blooded young activists to be aware of where their principle might land them , for to use loic to launch an attack is to misuse it , and that can have very serious consequences .
" users are putting themselves at risk , " willems continued .
" they are not real cyber criminals and they do n't realize that they could be sent to prison for this kind of thing . "
this is the same type of attack that was used against estonia in 2007 , although the estonian one did not involve the use of a software application , but rather through more organized botnets .
estonian government officials suspected that the russian government was somehow involved in attacking estonian financial and political websites , but in the end , only one estonian citizen was punished , who had to pay a relatively small fine .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mastercard was one of the hacktivists ' targets in some cases , finding users is not difficult as was the case of the 19-year-old dutch teenager who was arrested on saturday - as he had neglected to mask his ip address , making it relatively simple for law enforcement to find him .
depending on the protective measures users take , its perpetrators can be easily traced within the space of a day or even just a couple of hours , something which begs the question as to why anonymous has chosen the approach it has .
one suggestion is that the loic application is easy to come by and easy to use , while another is simply that hacktivists are naive .
risky business while the first dutch teenager was released , the younger boy remains in detention over what a spokesman for the dutch prosecutors described as potentially more serious violations .
some observers believe the two boys will be among a handful likely to be singled out and held up as a deterrent to more ddos attacks of this nature .
however , izaz ali , a british attorney specializing in internet law , told deutsche welle that in the case of britain there could be more wide-spread arrests .
" we 're talking here about the computer misuse act , " he said .
" the government will be forcing the police to look into this . "
using loic in a similar fashion may also violate similar statutes in germany and the netherlands .
damage limitation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future for blue-eyed hackers ?
contrary to some reports , ali says it is not illegal to download the software , as long as it is not used for anything other than it was originally intended .
" it is no different from using microsoft word to write something that causes damage to someone else , a computer virus for example . "
damage is the main issue here - if these attacks were simply a case of tit-for-tat that did not affect the possibility to legitimately use affected sites , the lawyer says it would be a different story .
in other words , ali advocates actual old-fashioned street protests to protest their cause in time-honored style .
" do it the old way , " he said , adding that these kinds of modern cyber attacks are harmful to people who might even share the same views .
" they see they are showing people that the leaks are a good thing , but they are going to cause problems for a lot of people , and this is a bad thing . "
reporter : tamsin walker editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- dutch police arrest hacker over alleged cyber attacks hackers have been waging cyber war on the websites of opponents of wikileaks , saying they 're fighting for a " free and open " internet .
dutch police have arrested a teenager accused of taking part in the attacks .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts contrary to oft-stated claims , the wikileaks cables show no huge credibility gap between official us policies and what diplomats write in confidential cables , say experts .
that doesn ’ t hold true for some other countries .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- australia offers support to wikileaks founder , operation payback begins canberra announced it will offer consular support to wikileaks founder julian assange who 's being held in britain .
meanwhile , hackers shut down the web sites of companies that cut business ties with wikileaks .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 13.12.2010 uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stop and listen this christmas , says cage against the machine a uk campaign aims to rock the christmas single charts - with the sound of silence .
they 're using experimentalist composer john cage 's masterpiece of silence , 4 ' 33 " , to get people listening to the needs around them . it all started as a joke . last year , a uk campaign succeeded in its aim of preventing the winner of casting show x-factor from becoming christmas number one by encouraging people to help " killing in the name " by us band rage against the machine top the charts . this year , uk art therapy masters student dave hilliard quipped to his friends , " let 's get silence to number one . " " it was meant to be a joke , " julie hilliard , dave hilliard 's wife and co-initiator of cage against the machine -lrb- catm -rrb- , told deutsche welle .
" but it captured the imagination of so many people . " when it comes to getting silence on the charts , the avant-garde work " 4 ' 33 " by american experimental composer john cage -lrb- 1912-1992 -rrb- is the first that comes to mind .
the score calls for any combination of musicians to go on stage and play absolutely nothing for exactly four minutes and 33 seconds .
for some , an agonizing exercise in patience ; for others , ear-opening proof that escape from the unceasing aural bombardment of our multimedia society is , indeed , possible . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john cage was fascinated by incidental sound open your ears the hilliards , along with long-time friend and music pr expert john rogers , are less interested in making a profound artistic statement and keener raising money for a few underfunded charities . starting monday , december 13 , supporters can purchase a specially recorded version of cage 's groundbreaking 1952 work , which included the participation of artists like aeroplane , billy bragg and kooks - though , of course , they ca n't really be heard . they recorded their own version to ensure that the revenue went directly to selected charities , but also because most other editions separate the work 's three movements into three tracks - but only single tracks are eligible for the single charts . revenue from the recordings and from ads on the groups website go to charities like c.a.l.m. , which provides support to young men considering suicide , the british tinnitus association , and organizations that offer music education to underprivileged children . " when you stop talking and you start to look at the world around you , you can see all these other needs that are there , besides your own , " said julie hilliard , adding that the charities they chose particularly reflected their appeal to stop and listen . ' cage would approve ' new york-based john cage expert richard kostelanetz said he did n't think the composer would have objected to the use of his work in this way . " he lived on a very busy avenue and did n't own a record player , because he preferred to listen to the noise outside his house , " kostelanetz told deutsche welle . the cage expert added that the setting of the work is crucial to making it a work of art and that the irony is so much stronger when it is performed by renowned artists - like those involved in catm .
the audience is bound to listen even more intently , knowing what they could be hearing from those artists , if they were actually playing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the black eyed peas are number one this week taking back the charts with more than 80,000 facebook fans as of december 13 , cage against the machine may be well on its way to rocking the uk 's christmas charts . they 'll have stiff competition from black eyed peas , who top this week 's singles chart in the uk with " the time -lrb- dirty bit -rrb- " and from matt cardle , the most recent winner of the uk 's popular casting show , x factor . the media has largely focused on the cage against the machine campaign as a counterpoint to market-tailored pop ballade and , specifically , to x factor .
however , hilliard said she and her husband have nothing against the casting show , but simply are n't interested in watching it . " if you do n't like it , do n't turn it on ; if you do n't like the record , do n't buy it , " she said . and if cage against the machine has its way , christmas eve in the uk will truly be a silent night - or at least one filled with incidental noise . author : kate bowen editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de music hotel brings new beat to berlin berlin 's new music hotel , nhow , combines luxury , design and quality musical facilities .
it hopes to bridge the gap between international and local artists - but the city 's underground scene is n't easily impressed .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- young german pianist unites classical music with world of video games benyamin nuss , 21 , has been wowing audiences in some of europe 's finest concert halls with solo piano interpretations of video game music by nobuo uematsu .
he spoke to deutsche welle about this unusual project .
-lrb- 04.12.2010 -rrb- france to start carte musique digital music subsidy plan france hopes to change young shoppers ' habits by subsidizing the sale of music with a " music card . "
but the government has not yet said which online services people will be able to use to make purchases .
-lrb- 27.10.2010 -rrb- 07 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
travel take a close-up look at some of europe 's most exciting cities .
bern , switzerland freiburg , germany jerez de la frontera , spain oxford , britain bordeaux , france dw-tv : euromaxx cuisine get a taste of europe with these gourmet recipes .
swedish crispbread saddle of rabbit with asparagus risotto rutabaga soup dumplings with meat filling sweet-savory pheasant from leeds dw-tv : euromaxx podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 12 - favorite alt-rockers ja , panik are back subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 13.12.2010 hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamed does n't know who fired the bullets that hit him a visit to the two hospitals in the war-torn helmand region of afghanistan exposes the horrors that innocent civilians , so-called collateral damage caught in the crossfire , experience in modern wartime . " no weapons allowed beyond this point , " reads a sign at the entrance of boost hospital in lashkar gah , afghanistan .
such advice may be redundant elsewhere , but here at boost it is as much a declaration of principle as a regulation .
lashkar gah is the capital of helmand province - one of afghanistan 's biggest battlefields .
the region may look like a wasteland but it is still able to produce more heroin than anywhere else in the rest of the world .
in a place like this , travelling often means taking roads that may be laid with explosives , or shelled by helicopters .
it 's little wonder , then , that common health problems often become real emergencies .
no questions asked " we do not ask anyone which side they belong to , or who injured them .
our work is limited to offering free medical care to anyone who comes to the hospital , " says stefano argenziano .
he is the project coordinator for doctors without borders - known by its french acronym msf - in helmand province .
accordingly , nobody at boost speaks of " taliban terrorists ; " they use the term " government opposition " instead .
there are more than 2,000 ngos registered in kabul , but just a handful of these have a field presence .
msf is one of those rare groups .
it relies solely on private funds and , unlike many other groups , does not have paid soldiers protecting the safety of its staff .
even the usual barbed wire and sandbags are n't to be found at the camp where msf staff lodges .
" we try not to be in the same place as foreign troops .
nonetheless , our best calling card is our work , " argenziano said .
" we have earned the respect of local people because everybody knows what we are all about . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a sign tells you not to take your gun into the hospital msf resumed its work in afghanistan after an absence of five years , following the murder of five of its staff in badghis province in 2004 .
their humanitarian mission in lashkar gah , supporting boost hospital , was launched in november , 2009 .
boost is one of the two reference hospitals in the war-torn south of the country , alongside the one in kandahar .
a reference hospital is the term used by the world health organization for hospitals that accept complex cases for cutting-edge diagnosis and treatment .
ilona is a nurse who arrived in afghanistan from germany two years ago .
today , she moves gently but swiftly through the sea of blue burkhas in the female section of boost hospital .
patients from all over " many of the cases we handle deal with malnutrition in infants after drinking cow or goat milk .
their mothers are anemic and ca n't breast-feed , so the children suffer from chronic gastroenteritis because they are unable to process the animal milk , " she said .
there are also afghan nurses at boost , and assadullah - a native of the relatively peaceful northern region mazar , is one of them .
" we also treat those hospitalized for an overdose of heroin or simply the most direct victims of this war , " she said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : did the british wound - then save- ihmatullah ? -lrb- right -rrb- civilian casualties and deaths continue to increase in afghanistan , despite a commitment by nato troops to avoid them .
un figures suggest isaf troops are causing less " collateral damage " - army-speak for injured civilians - but insurgents continue to target civilians , so casualties are rising .
a un report on civilian casualties in afghanistan , released in the summer of 2010 , showed civilian deaths and injuries in the country had increased by 31 percent from a year earlier , to 3,268 . the un attributed 76 per cent of these incidents to insurgents – up from 53 per cent in 2009 .
mistaken for taliban ?
at boost , msf is primarily responsible for pediatrics and maternity .
but its not hard to find direct victims of the war as well .
take sharifullah , for instance .
a 16-year-old boy , he was shot in the stomach during the celebrations of the end of ramadan .
his older brother , abdullhaq , says he believes the wound came from british troops .
" it came from a british convoy .
the kids began to run alongside the road .
the soldiers probably took them for a gang of talibs and shot , " abdullhaq said .
he added that four months ago , four children in his village were killed the same way .
assadullah , who was briefing sharifullah on how to walk with crutches , said such cases of injury via coalition fire were " unfortunately very common " at boost .
ihmatullah , a 16-year-old shepherd from musa qala , was also possibly injured by coalition fire .
he was hit by rocket shrapnel one night while he was sleeping outdoors .
according to his father , abdulwazid , it was the british who wounded his son - then stabilized him and brought him to boost .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : six-year-old daudchan lost a leg ; his brother lost two laura mendikoa is an experienced nurse from mexico who has worked around the world , doing stints in liberia , somalia , kenya and mexico - and now helmland .
" back home life is doubtless more comfortable but it 's much more rewarding here , " she said .
mendikoa 's job one recent day was treating abdulraziq , a 13-year old from neighboring farah province who was admitted three weeks earlier after he had a life-changing encounter with an ied , or improvised explosive device .
he lost an eye and his right hand in the blast .
ieds and other tragedies sudden tragedy also changed the lives of six-year-old daudchan and his four-year-old brother , mahmadullah .
daudchan lost his leg , and his brother lost both legs .
" they were travelling with their father on a motorcycle when they had the misfortune of running over an ied , " the children 's grandfather said , holding daudchan 's bandaged stump .
" my son was luckier : he has only lost the toes of his right foot , " he added in a resigned voice .
in the building adjacent to boost hospital , an italian ngo callled emergency runs a hospital that specializes in treating the war-wounded , specializing in victims of land mines .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : doctor matteo dell 'aira was arrested and held in afghanistan at the entrance one friday , a smiling child gave his three-fingered hand to a visitor to shake .
but the child was no longer a patient - he was there to see his brother .
friday is not only a day of prayer , it 's a day to visit wounded relatives in the hospital .
the emergency hospital in lashkar gah has been in operation since 2004 , and it is the third one the milan-based ngo runs in afghanistan .
the other two are in the northern districts of panjshir and kabul , open since 1999 and 2001 respectively .
not surprisingly , the one in lashkar gah is the busiest of the three .
around 90 percent of the patients admitted are civilians - and 40 percent of those are children , according to matteo dell 'aira , the local medical coordinator .
read more on the plight of afghan civilians 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opposition blasts visit to afghanistan by defense minister and wife german defense minister karl theodor zu guttenberg is in afghanistan on an unannounced visit with his wife stephanie .
it ’ s the first time a german defense minister is being accompanied by his wife to a warzone .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- local builders risk losing out in afghanistan 's helmand province us marines and local businessmen are laying down the foundations for reconstruction in one of the taliban 's biggest strongholds in afghanistan .
but helmand is likely to remain a place where many die and a few get rich .
-lrb- 16.10.2010 -rrb- operation to remove taliban from marjah sends thousands fleeing the civilian population of marjah , a farming community in helmand , afghanistan , are fleeing ahead of a huge nato operation designed to defeat the entrenched taliban in the region and restore government control .
-lrb- 10.02.2010 -rrb- 07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth al qaeda 's future deutsche welle takes a closer look at osama bin laden and the terrorist network he spearheaded .
podcast series roxy cruz from east la found a passion for the environment while working with farmers in nepal .
listen to the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.05.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 13.12.2010 hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamed does n't know who fired the bullets that hit him a visit to the two hospitals in the war-torn helmand region of afghanistan exposes the horrors that innocent civilians , so-called collateral damage caught in the crossfire , experience in modern wartime . " no weapons allowed beyond this point , " reads a sign at the entrance of boost hospital in lashkar gah , afghanistan .
such advice may be redundant elsewhere , but here at boost it is as much a declaration of principle as a regulation .
lashkar gah is the capital of helmand province - one of afghanistan 's biggest battlefields .
the region may look like a wasteland but it is still able to produce more heroin than anywhere else in the rest of the world .
in a place like this , travelling often means taking roads that may be laid with explosives , or shelled by helicopters .
it 's little wonder , then , that common health problems often become real emergencies .
no questions asked " we do not ask anyone which side they belong to , or who injured them .
our work is limited to offering free medical care to anyone who comes to the hospital , " says stefano argenziano .
he is the project coordinator for doctors without borders - known by its french acronym msf - in helmand province .
accordingly , nobody at boost speaks of " taliban terrorists ; " they use the term " government opposition " instead .
there are more than 2,000 ngos registered in kabul , but just a handful of these have a field presence .
msf is one of those rare groups .
it relies solely on private funds and , unlike many other groups , does not have paid soldiers protecting the safety of its staff .
even the usual barbed wire and sandbags are n't to be found at the camp where msf staff lodges .
" we try not to be in the same place as foreign troops .
nonetheless , our best calling card is our work , " argenziano said .
" we have earned the respect of local people because everybody knows what we are all about . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a sign tells you not to take your gun into the hospital msf resumed its work in afghanistan after an absence of five years , following the murder of five of its staff in badghis province in 2004 .
their humanitarian mission in lashkar gah , supporting boost hospital , was launched in november , 2009 .
boost is one of the two reference hospitals in the war-torn south of the country , alongside the one in kandahar .
a reference hospital is the term used by the world health organization for hospitals that accept complex cases for cutting-edge diagnosis and treatment .
ilona is a nurse who arrived in afghanistan from germany two years ago .
today , she moves gently but swiftly through the sea of blue burkhas in the female section of boost hospital .
patients from all over " many of the cases we handle deal with malnutrition in infants after drinking cow or goat milk .
their mothers are anemic and ca n't breast-feed , so the children suffer from chronic gastroenteritis because they are unable to process the animal milk , " she said .
there are also afghan nurses at boost , and assadullah - a native of the relatively peaceful northern region mazar , is one of them .
" we also treat those hospitalized for an overdose of heroin or simply the most direct victims of this war , " she said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : did the british wound - then save- ihmatullah ? -lrb- right -rrb- civilian casualties and deaths continue to increase in afghanistan , despite a commitment by nato troops to avoid them .
un figures suggest isaf troops are causing less " collateral damage " - army-speak for injured civilians - but insurgents continue to target civilians , so casualties are rising .
a un report on civilian casualties in afghanistan , released in the summer of 2010 , showed civilian deaths and injuries in the country had increased by 31 percent from a year earlier , to 3,268 . the un attributed 76 per cent of these incidents to insurgents – up from 53 per cent in 2009 .
mistaken for taliban ?
at boost , msf is primarily responsible for pediatrics and maternity .
but its not hard to find direct victims of the war as well .
take sharifullah , for instance .
a 16-year-old boy , he was shot in the stomach during the celebrations of the end of ramadan .
his older brother , abdullhaq , says he believes the wound came from british troops .
" it came from a british convoy .
the kids began to run alongside the road .
the soldiers probably took them for a gang of talibs and shot , " abdullhaq said .
he added that four months ago , four children in his village were killed the same way .
assadullah , who was briefing sharifullah on how to walk with crutches , said such cases of injury via coalition fire were " unfortunately very common " at boost .
ihmatullah , a 16-year-old shepherd from musa qala , was also possibly injured by coalition fire .
he was hit by rocket shrapnel one night while he was sleeping outdoors .
according to his father , abdulwazid , it was the british who wounded his son - then stabilized him and brought him to boost .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : six-year-old daudchan lost a leg ; his brother lost two laura mendikoa is an experienced nurse from mexico who has worked around the world , doing stints in liberia , somalia , kenya and mexico - and now helmland .
" back home life is doubtless more comfortable but it 's much more rewarding here , " she said .
mendikoa 's job one recent day was treating abdulraziq , a 13-year old from neighboring farah province who was admitted three weeks earlier after he had a life-changing encounter with an ied , or improvised explosive device .
he lost an eye and his right hand in the blast .
ieds and other tragedies sudden tragedy also changed the lives of six-year-old daudchan and his four-year-old brother , mahmadullah .
daudchan lost his leg , and his brother lost both legs .
" they were travelling with their father on a motorcycle when they had the misfortune of running over an ied , " the children 's grandfather said , holding daudchan 's bandaged stump .
" my son was luckier : he has only lost the toes of his right foot , " he added in a resigned voice .
in the building adjacent to boost hospital , an italian ngo callled emergency runs a hospital that specializes in treating the war-wounded , specializing in victims of land mines .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : doctor matteo dell 'aira was arrested and held in afghanistan at the entrance one friday , a smiling child gave his three-fingered hand to a visitor to shake .
but the child was no longer a patient - he was there to see his brother .
friday is not only a day of prayer , it 's a day to visit wounded relatives in the hospital .
the emergency hospital in lashkar gah has been in operation since 2004 , and it is the third one the milan-based ngo runs in afghanistan .
the other two are in the northern districts of panjshir and kabul , open since 1999 and 2001 respectively .
not surprisingly , the one in lashkar gah is the busiest of the three .
around 90 percent of the patients admitted are civilians - and 40 percent of those are children , according to matteo dell 'aira , the local medical coordinator .
read more on the plight of afghan civilians 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opposition blasts visit to afghanistan by defense minister and wife german defense minister karl theodor zu guttenberg is in afghanistan on an unannounced visit with his wife stephanie .
it ’ s the first time a german defense minister is being accompanied by his wife to a warzone .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- local builders risk losing out in afghanistan 's helmand province us marines and local businessmen are laying down the foundations for reconstruction in one of the taliban 's biggest strongholds in afghanistan .
but helmand is likely to remain a place where many die and a few get rich .
-lrb- 16.10.2010 -rrb- operation to remove taliban from marjah sends thousands fleeing the civilian population of marjah , a farming community in helmand , afghanistan , are fleeing ahead of a huge nato operation designed to defeat the entrenched taliban in the region and restore government control .
-lrb- 10.02.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the ngos on the ground in afghanistan can sigificantly impact the war there ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
podcast series a 19-year-old single mom reaches out to fellow refugees at the kakuma camp in kenya .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 13.12.2010 hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamed does n't know who fired the bullets that hit him a visit to the two hospitals in the war-torn helmand region of afghanistan exposes the horrors that innocent civilians , so-called collateral damage caught in the crossfire , experience in modern wartime . " no weapons allowed beyond this point , " reads a sign at the entrance of boost hospital in lashkar gah , afghanistan .
such advice may be redundant elsewhere , but here at boost it is as much a declaration of principle as a regulation .
lashkar gah is the capital of helmand province - one of afghanistan 's biggest battlefields .
the region may look like a wasteland but it is still able to produce more heroin than anywhere else in the rest of the world .
in a place like this , travelling often means taking roads that may be laid with explosives , or shelled by helicopters .
it 's little wonder , then , that common health problems often become real emergencies .
no questions asked " we do not ask anyone which side they belong to , or who injured them .
our work is limited to offering free medical care to anyone who comes to the hospital , " says stefano argenziano .
he is the project coordinator for doctors without borders - known by its french acronym msf - in helmand province .
accordingly , nobody at boost speaks of " taliban terrorists ; " they use the term " government opposition " instead .
there are more than 2,000 ngos registered in kabul , but just a handful of these have a field presence .
msf is one of those rare groups .
it relies solely on private funds and , unlike many other groups , does not have paid soldiers protecting the safety of its staff .
even the usual barbed wire and sandbags are n't to be found at the camp where msf staff lodges .
" we try not to be in the same place as foreign troops .
nonetheless , our best calling card is our work , " argenziano said .
" we have earned the respect of local people because everybody knows what we are all about . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a sign tells you not to take your gun into the hospital msf resumed its work in afghanistan after an absence of five years , following the murder of five of its staff in badghis province in 2004 .
their humanitarian mission in lashkar gah , supporting boost hospital , was launched in november , 2009 .
boost is one of the two reference hospitals in the war-torn south of the country , alongside the one in kandahar .
a reference hospital is the term used by the world health organization for hospitals that accept complex cases for cutting-edge diagnosis and treatment .
ilona is a nurse who arrived in afghanistan from germany two years ago .
today , she moves gently but swiftly through the sea of blue burkhas in the female section of boost hospital .
patients from all over " many of the cases we handle deal with malnutrition in infants after drinking cow or goat milk .
their mothers are anemic and ca n't breast-feed , so the children suffer from chronic gastroenteritis because they are unable to process the animal milk , " she said .
there are also afghan nurses at boost , and assadullah - a native of the relatively peaceful northern region mazar , is one of them .
" we also treat those hospitalized for an overdose of heroin or simply the most direct victims of this war , " she said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : did the british wound - then save- ihmatullah ? -lrb- right -rrb- civilian casualties and deaths continue to increase in afghanistan , despite a commitment by nato troops to avoid them .
un figures suggest isaf troops are causing less " collateral damage " - army-speak for injured civilians - but insurgents continue to target civilians , so casualties are rising .
a un report on civilian casualties in afghanistan , released in the summer of 2010 , showed civilian deaths and injuries in the country had increased by 31 percent from a year earlier , to 3,268 . the un attributed 76 per cent of these incidents to insurgents – up from 53 per cent in 2009 .
mistaken for taliban ?
at boost , msf is primarily responsible for pediatrics and maternity .
but its not hard to find direct victims of the war as well .
take sharifullah , for instance .
a 16-year-old boy , he was shot in the stomach during the celebrations of the end of ramadan .
his older brother , abdullhaq , says he believes the wound came from british troops .
" it came from a british convoy .
the kids began to run alongside the road .
the soldiers probably took them for a gang of talibs and shot , " abdullhaq said .
he added that four months ago , four children in his village were killed the same way .
assadullah , who was briefing sharifullah on how to walk with crutches , said such cases of injury via coalition fire were " unfortunately very common " at boost .
ihmatullah , a 16-year-old shepherd from musa qala , was also possibly injured by coalition fire .
he was hit by rocket shrapnel one night while he was sleeping outdoors .
according to his father , abdulwazid , it was the british who wounded his son - then stabilized him and brought him to boost .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : six-year-old daudchan lost a leg ; his brother lost two laura mendikoa is an experienced nurse from mexico who has worked around the world , doing stints in liberia , somalia , kenya and mexico - and now helmland .
" back home life is doubtless more comfortable but it 's much more rewarding here , " she said .
mendikoa 's job one recent day was treating abdulraziq , a 13-year old from neighboring farah province who was admitted three weeks earlier after he had a life-changing encounter with an ied , or improvised explosive device .
he lost an eye and his right hand in the blast .
ieds and other tragedies sudden tragedy also changed the lives of six-year-old daudchan and his four-year-old brother , mahmadullah .
daudchan lost his leg , and his brother lost both legs .
" they were travelling with their father on a motorcycle when they had the misfortune of running over an ied , " the children 's grandfather said , holding daudchan 's bandaged stump .
" my son was luckier : he has only lost the toes of his right foot , " he added in a resigned voice .
in the building adjacent to boost hospital , an italian ngo callled emergency runs a hospital that specializes in treating the war-wounded , specializing in victims of land mines .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : doctor matteo dell 'aira was arrested and held in afghanistan at the entrance one friday , a smiling child gave his three-fingered hand to a visitor to shake .
but the child was no longer a patient - he was there to see his brother .
friday is not only a day of prayer , it 's a day to visit wounded relatives in the hospital .
the emergency hospital in lashkar gah has been in operation since 2004 , and it is the third one the milan-based ngo runs in afghanistan .
the other two are in the northern districts of panjshir and kabul , open since 1999 and 2001 respectively .
not surprisingly , the one in lashkar gah is the busiest of the three .
around 90 percent of the patients admitted are civilians - and 40 percent of those are children , according to matteo dell 'aira , the local medical coordinator .
read more on the plight of afghan civilians 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opposition blasts visit to afghanistan by defense minister and wife german defense minister karl theodor zu guttenberg is in afghanistan on an unannounced visit with his wife stephanie .
it ’ s the first time a german defense minister is being accompanied by his wife to a warzone .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- local builders risk losing out in afghanistan 's helmand province us marines and local businessmen are laying down the foundations for reconstruction in one of the taliban 's biggest strongholds in afghanistan .
but helmand is likely to remain a place where many die and a few get rich .
-lrb- 16.10.2010 -rrb- operation to remove taliban from marjah sends thousands fleeing the civilian population of marjah , a farming community in helmand , afghanistan , are fleeing ahead of a huge nato operation designed to defeat the entrenched taliban in the region and restore government control .
-lrb- 10.02.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the ngos on the ground in afghanistan can sigificantly impact the war there ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
07 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
us-pakistan relations the new york times is reporting that the us is planning special operations in pakistan .
taliban expert ahmed rashid talks about the new york times report the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
successful european tech startups continue to lag behind -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 successful european tech startups continue to lag behind großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : european startups still lag behind us counterparts after a series of recent european tech conferences , silicon valley continues to dominate .
tech venture capital on this side of the atlantic still remains relatively small , due to bureaucracy , language problems . it was hard to ignore the dominance of silicon valley at this year 's leweb tech conference last week in paris - nearly all the speakers and featured guests were from california 's famed tech hub .
while european innovation is picking up speed , it is starting from a long way behind the american startup scene - participants at the conference blamed over-cautious investors and misguided government spending .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : european venture capitalists have n't been investing in tech startups as long as they have been in silicon valley a vicious cycle in europe adventurous investors tend to be entrepreneurs themselves , so , where silicon valley has created a virtuous cycle , europe is faced with a chicken-and-egg situation : there 's not enough money because there are not enough start-ups , and there are not enough start-ups because there 's not enough money .
" i know quite a few companies that moved to the valley just because they found capital there , " said sarik weber , a german entrepreneur who runs the start-up incubator programme hanse ventures in hamburg .
his company provides capital and advice to new businesses .
" the whole silicon valley ecosystem is based on 40 to 50 years of entrepreneurs building their companies doing exits very successfully and then reinvesting this money back into the ecosystem , " he added . " this is what really fosters the european startup scene .
when we get great exits like skype or others , these people reinvest their money into european start-ups and we have to create that . "
while european governments spend more on research and development than their american and japanese counterparts , experts say that tax incentives and subsidies are not doing anything to encourage private-sector investors .
" the state is doing its job , but do the individual investors have enough confidence to invest more in research and development ? " said pierre monhen , who teaches innovation policy at the united nations university in maastricht , the netherlands .
" there is a more cautious attitude in europe than in the us . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some entrepeneurs claim that with the proper political direction , european startups could do much better poor european political decisions hinder innovation , entrepeneurs say but several entrepreneurs at leweb maintained that it is a political problem , and less of a problem of entrepeneurship . european governments , and the european union itself , may be spending money , but it is not very effective .
johan staeul von holstein , who has most recently founded mycube , a social networking startup based in singapore , thinks innovation could be encouraged with judicious tax reforms .
" there 's as much capital as you can possibly imagine around , " he said .
" it 's just that the wrong people are sitting on the capital .
politicians need to understand the value of entrepreneurship and innovation and growth , and by giving huge tax benefits to entrepreneurs making their own decisions and putting large amounts of money in the hands of entrepreneurs : that would change the whole system in 24 hours . "
a more serious problem is cultural attitudes and bad ideas , according to tariq krim , one of europe 's most successful entrepreneurs .
he set up jolicloud , a company that makes a linux-based operating system which can be installed on any computer .
he adds that spending on innovation is misguided , and tends to go to a few large companies rather than lots of small ones .
in 2008 , france , for example , invested 99 million euros -lrb- $ 131 million -rrb- in a new search engine called quearo , which was supposed to be a european answer to google .
since then , essentially nothing has happened and the project appears to be dead .
" they should have rather give money to 20 start ups , " krim said .
“ it has to be a competitive state about ideas . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many european startups , like slense , limit themselves to only a few languages , like english - making the european market a lot smaller .
heterogeneous language , culture slow european tech startups but beyond poor investment , the single european market may have simplified the movement of labor and money , but it has not created a single customer base .
freddy mini , who runs netvibes , a start-up that creates personalised dashboards on the web , pointed out that american companies automatically have a leg up , as they have a much more culturally and linguistically homogenous employment and customer base than their european counterparts .
in other words , he noted , european companies have to hire specialists for each corner of the continent .
" the first advice is forget your culture - get to the culture of the country where you live and hire people from the ground , " he said .
author : molly guinness , paris editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de niche search engines pick needles out of web haystacks several new search engines focus on segments of the web , like social networking or microblogging sites .
they are not looking to challenge google , but they are letting users search places that google ca n't reach .
-lrb- 22.09.2010 -rrb- swedish start-up offers new micro-donation system flattr lets readers donate by clicking buttons on blogs and other websites .
some sites have reported income of over 1,000 euros as a result of the new company .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- ‘ hubs ’ offer like-minded businesses a shared home as more people start businesses from home with nothing but a laptop , the rapidly growing ' hub ' network aims to create a mutually beneficial work environment that provides some of the perks of working for a larger firm .
-lrb- 21.07.2010 -rrb- feedback what can europe do to encourage more and better tech startups ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
02 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : online vigilantes have taken to their keyboards following the arrest in the netherlands of two teenagers involved in last week 's distributed denial of service attacks against mastercard , lawyers tell young hackers to be aware of the law . on saturday , a second dutch teenager , 19 , was arrested for having been part of a cyberattack that targeted the dutch public prosecutor 's website .
the prosecutor 's site became a target after the dutch prosecutor arrested another dutch teenager , 16 , who had joined an online " hacktivist " attack in the name of wikileaks .
this is just the latest in a series of attacks against perceived enemies of wikileaks largely by a group of its supporters , a shadowy online vigilante group that calls itself anonymous .
" any individual , organization , corporation , and / or government entity which supports freedom of speech and a free internet is an ally of anonymous , " the organization said on its website . " if you work to suppress freedom of expression and a free internet your efforts will be halted . "
the group is more like a semi-controlled herd rather than a traditional heirarchical organization - it does not have clear leadership or direction .
previously , it targeted the church of scientology and the website of the recording industry association of america .
but now that some have been caught for their alleged crimes , it may serve as a legal warning shot to those who feel that they can hide in this hacktivist huddle .
misused technology this time around , in response to the wikileaks case , anonymous followers have been using a computer application known as low orbit ion canon -lrb- loic -rrb- .
using this software , these hacktivists , managed to temporarily disable a number of major financial companý websites , including mastercard 's .
the software used in the attacks was originally designed to help protect websites by testing their penetrability , but when pointed at an unsuspecting site it has the reverse effect .
when used en masse , it is a crude but simple way to create a ddos , or distributed denial of service attack , which floods websites with high level of artificial traffic , making them temporarily slow or more often , unusable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wikileaks founder julian assange , has neither condoned nor condemned the denial of service attacks eddy willems , the spokesperson for tthe european expert group for it security told deutsche welle that there is n't much to the application , which he describes as a " pretty screen " with some buttons to press .
yet the flood module , which crafts packets to send to the target to deal with , can be quite debilitating .
" when you get enough people doing this , " he said , " something has to give .
in this case it 's the targets ' websites . "
the war is not over if anonymous is to be believed , they will keep on bringing these kinds of online attacks as long as there are enough wikileaks supporters on board to bring it about .
as far as they are concerned , it is a matter of principle .
but legal experts are now warning hot-blooded young activists to be aware of where their principle might land them , for to use loic to launch an attack is to misuse it , and that can have very serious consequences .
" users are putting themselves at risk , " willems continued .
" they are not real cyber criminals and they do n't realize that they could be sent to prison for this kind of thing . "
this is the same type of attack that was used against estonia in 2007 , although the estonian one did not involve the use of a software application , but rather through more organized botnets .
estonian government officials suspected that the russian government was somehow involved in attacking estonian financial and political websites , but in the end , only one estonian citizen was punished , who had to pay a relatively small fine .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mastercard was one of the hacktivists ' targets in some cases , finding users is not difficult as was the case of the 19-year-old dutch teenager who was arrested on saturday - as he had neglected to mask his ip address , making it relatively simple for law enforcement to find him .
depending on the protective measures users take , its perpetrators can be easily traced within the space of a day or even just a couple of hours , something which begs the question as to why anonymous has chosen the approach it has .
one suggestion is that the loic application is easy to come by and easy to use , while another is simply that hacktivists are naive .
risky business while the first dutch teenager was released , the younger boy remains in detention over what a spokesman for the dutch prosecutors described as potentially more serious violations .
some observers believe the two boys will be among a handful likely to be singled out and held up as a deterrent to more ddos attacks of this nature .
however , izaz ali , a british attorney specializing in internet law , told deutsche welle that in the case of britain there could be more wide-spread arrests .
" we 're talking here about the computer misuse act , " he said .
" the government will be forcing the police to look into this . "
using loic in a similar fashion may also violate similar statutes in germany and the netherlands .
damage limitation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future for blue-eyed hackers ?
contrary to some reports , ali says it is not illegal to download the software , as long as it is not used for anything other than it was originally intended .
" it is no different from using microsoft word to write something that causes damage to someone else , a computer virus for example . "
damage is the main issue here - if these attacks were simply a case of tit-for-tat that did not affect the possibility to legitimately use affected sites , the lawyer says it would be a different story .
in other words , ali advocates actual old-fashioned street protests to protest their cause in time-honored style .
" do it the old way , " he said , adding that these kinds of modern cyber attacks are harmful to people who might even share the same views .
" they see they are showing people that the leaks are a good thing , but they are going to cause problems for a lot of people , and this is a bad thing . "
reporter : tamsin walker editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- dutch police arrest hacker over alleged cyber attacks hackers have been waging cyber war on the websites of opponents of wikileaks , saying they 're fighting for a " free and open " internet .
dutch police have arrested a teenager accused of taking part in the attacks .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts contrary to oft-stated claims , the wikileaks cables show no huge credibility gap between official us policies and what diplomats write in confidential cables , say experts .
that doesn ’ t hold true for some other countries .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- australia offers support to wikileaks founder , operation payback begins canberra announced it will offer consular support to wikileaks founder julian assange who 's being held in britain .
meanwhile , hackers shut down the web sites of companies that cut business ties with wikileaks .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- feedback what should happen to those who perpetrate denial of service attacks ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
02 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : online vigilantes have taken to their keyboards following the arrest in the netherlands of two teenagers involved in last week 's distributed denial of service attacks against mastercard , lawyers tell young hackers to be aware of the law . on saturday , a second dutch teenager , 19 , was arrested for having been part of a cyberattack that targeted the dutch public prosecutor 's website .
the prosecutor 's site became a target after the dutch prosecutor arrested another dutch teenager , 16 , who had joined an online " hacktivist " attack in the name of wikileaks .
this is just the latest in a series of attacks against perceived enemies of wikileaks largely by a group of its supporters , a shadowy online vigilante group that calls itself anonymous .
" any individual , organization , corporation , and / or government entity which supports freedom of speech and a free internet is an ally of anonymous , " the organization said on its website . " if you work to suppress freedom of expression and a free internet your efforts will be halted . "
the group is more like a semi-controlled herd rather than a traditional heirarchical organization - it does not have clear leadership or direction .
previously , it targeted the church of scientology and the website of the recording industry association of america .
but now that some have been caught for their alleged crimes , it may serve as a legal warning shot to those who feel that they can hide in this hacktivist huddle .
misused technology this time around , in response to the wikileaks case , anonymous followers have been using a computer application known as low orbit ion canon -lrb- loic -rrb- .
using this software , these hacktivists , managed to temporarily disable a number of major financial companý websites , including mastercard 's .
the software used in the attacks was originally designed to help protect websites by testing their penetrability , but when pointed at an unsuspecting site it has the reverse effect .
when used en masse , it is a crude but simple way to create a ddos , or distributed denial of service attack , which floods websites with high level of artificial traffic , making them temporarily slow or more often , unusable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wikileaks founder julian assange , has neither condoned nor condemned the denial of service attacks eddy willems , the spokesperson for tthe european expert group for it security told deutsche welle that there is n't much to the application , which he describes as a " pretty screen " with some buttons to press .
yet the flood module , which crafts packets to send to the target to deal with , can be quite debilitating .
" when you get enough people doing this , " he said , " something has to give .
in this case it 's the targets ' websites . "
the war is not over if anonymous is to be believed , they will keep on bringing these kinds of online attacks as long as there are enough wikileaks supporters on board to bring it about .
as far as they are concerned , it is a matter of principle .
but legal experts are now warning hot-blooded young activists to be aware of where their principle might land them , for to use loic to launch an attack is to misuse it , and that can have very serious consequences .
" users are putting themselves at risk , " willems continued .
" they are not real cyber criminals and they do n't realize that they could be sent to prison for this kind of thing . "
this is the same type of attack that was used against estonia in 2007 , although the estonian one did not involve the use of a software application , but rather through more organized botnets .
estonian government officials suspected that the russian government was somehow involved in attacking estonian financial and political websites , but in the end , only one estonian citizen was punished , who had to pay a relatively small fine .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mastercard was one of the hacktivists ' targets in some cases , finding users is not difficult as was the case of the 19-year-old dutch teenager who was arrested on saturday - as he had neglected to mask his ip address , making it relatively simple for law enforcement to find him .
depending on the protective measures users take , its perpetrators can be easily traced within the space of a day or even just a couple of hours , something which begs the question as to why anonymous has chosen the approach it has .
one suggestion is that the loic application is easy to come by and easy to use , while another is simply that hacktivists are naive .
risky business while the first dutch teenager was released , the younger boy remains in detention over what a spokesman for the dutch prosecutors described as potentially more serious violations .
some observers believe the two boys will be among a handful likely to be singled out and held up as a deterrent to more ddos attacks of this nature .
however , izaz ali , a british attorney specializing in internet law , told deutsche welle that in the case of britain there could be more wide-spread arrests .
" we 're talking here about the computer misuse act , " he said .
" the government will be forcing the police to look into this . "
using loic in a similar fashion may also violate similar statutes in germany and the netherlands .
damage limitation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future for blue-eyed hackers ?
contrary to some reports , ali says it is not illegal to download the software , as long as it is not used for anything other than it was originally intended .
" it is no different from using microsoft word to write something that causes damage to someone else , a computer virus for example . "
damage is the main issue here - if these attacks were simply a case of tit-for-tat that did not affect the possibility to legitimately use affected sites , the lawyer says it would be a different story .
in other words , ali advocates actual old-fashioned street protests to protest their cause in time-honored style .
" do it the old way , " he said , adding that these kinds of modern cyber attacks are harmful to people who might even share the same views .
" they see they are showing people that the leaks are a good thing , but they are going to cause problems for a lot of people , and this is a bad thing . "
reporter : tamsin walker editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- dutch police arrest hacker over alleged cyber attacks hackers have been waging cyber war on the websites of opponents of wikileaks , saying they 're fighting for a " free and open " internet .
dutch police have arrested a teenager accused of taking part in the attacks .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts contrary to oft-stated claims , the wikileaks cables show no huge credibility gap between official us policies and what diplomats write in confidential cables , say experts .
that doesn ’ t hold true for some other countries .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- australia offers support to wikileaks founder , operation payback begins canberra announced it will offer consular support to wikileaks founder julian assange who 's being held in britain .
meanwhile , hackers shut down the web sites of companies that cut business ties with wikileaks .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- 02 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press opinion : wikileaks ' latest release is a diplomatic waterloo africa -pipe- 13.12.2010 wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell gained information on all aspects of nigeria 's oil business the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria . leaked us diplomatic cables from last year , carried by a number of international newspapers and magazines , show that royal dutch shell - among the major oil producers in nigeria - have infiltrated key nigerian ministries and have been using links to us officials to gain information on rival oil companies in the country , and the movements and objectives of militants in the niger delta region .
shell 's level of penetration into the governmental structure of nigeria - one of the world 's largest oil exporters - have given the company access to politicians and decision-makers at the highest level , providing it with insider knowledge of all movements and negotiations within those ministries .
according to dr. heinz jockers , a nigeria expert and a member of the eu election observation mission to nigeria , shell has personnel in the finance , interior , national planning , defense , environment , energy and foreign affairs ministries as well as influence over a number of presidential advisers , parliamentarians , governors , and high-ranked tribal rulers .
high level infiltration in major ministeries and oil-producing states " shell operatives - although they are unofficially employed by the company - have infiltrated the majority of the most important ministries in the nigerian government , " jockers told deutsche welle .
" they will of course also have their people in the ministries of the main oil-producing states . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell used nigerian sources to help secure its interests jockers said that the main aim of the shell operatives would be to gain information on everything which could in one way or the other affect the company 's business .
" areas of interest for these people would be the position of other competitors , be it companies or countries ; their offers regarding oil deals in nigeria , the pricing scale for oil in the country , and the level of governmental support for security , " he said .
the leaked cables show that shell had obtained information that nigeria had invited bids for oil concessions from china and was concerned at the possibility of increased competition from the people 's republic .
they also show that shell executives requested confirmation from us officials on russian gas giant gazprom 's interest in nigeria after information was obtained from ministerial channels .
jockers added that the practice of infiltration was so widespread that it is highly likely that other large companies have embedded personnel in governmental offices as this was the only way that advantages in business could be gained in nigeria .
" these could include : julius berger , chevron , hochtief , siemens , peugeot , haliburton , and mercedes , " he said .
" you have to remember : nigeria is a chaotic and highly corrupt country .
to do business there , you have to play the game . "
shell contacted us officials over delta militant threat bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell wanted us help with getting information on militants ann pickard , shell 's top executive in nigeria , was also revealed to have spoken to us officials in 2008 about the threat of militants in the niger delta which had , at its peak in 2006 , shut down a quarter of nigeria 's oil output .
an amnesty in 2009 ended the acts of sabotage being carried out on vulnerable pipelines and platforms , such as shell 's soku gas facility which had been the target of militant rocket attacks at the height of the so-called oil war .
" shell had been the main target of attacks by militants since the early 1990s , " heinrich bergstresser , a nigeria expert at the german institute of global and area studies -lrb- giga -rrb- in hamburg , told deutsche welle .
" the sabotages and attacks on shell 's installations , among others , were and are executed not just by militants but also orchestrated by complicit agents within the oil companies .
they benefit from the attacks because these people are very often also in charge of managing the payment of compensation which offers the opportunity to keep certain amounts of the payment for themselves . "
the cable dispatches from 2008 showed that shell 's pickard had contacted the us consulate in lagos with an offer to share " intelligence " on militant activity in exchange for information on a shipment of surface-to-air missiles which had allegedly been destined for nigerian militant groups in the delta region .
cables hint at shell 's involvement with local godfathers the cables describe how pickard was also unconvinced that a certain governor in the delta region " lacked the connections among rivers state militant leaders to successfully coopt them as the governors in delta and bayelsa states have done with militants in their states , " and that she believed the clash between the military and militants was " a proxy war for ongoing disputes " between rival governors .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : playing both sides in the delta struggle is a dangerous game this section of the cable transcripts hints at the possibility that shell has been attempting to use its influence to control local leaders , a comlicated and dangerous practice according to heinrich bergstresser .
" shell is playing with fire if it has or had any connection with the governors and militants , " he said .
" on the one hand , the oil companies can not control the governors but on the other hand they can try to persuade them to act in favor of the companies and in their own interest .
i am sure that they are paying certain amounts to the governors but that does not guarantee anything . "
bergstresser added that very often the oil companies find themselves caught between a rock and a hard place .
" the militias have emancipated themselves from their political godfathers and have started their own business of attacks and kidnappings so the oil companies find themselves sandwiched between profit-making , being threatened by militias , and keeping very close relationships with the federal government . "
author : nick amies editor : rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de illegal arms shipments to nigeria raise stakes ahead of 2011 elections general elections in nigeria are still several months away , but tensions are rising with memories still fresh of the 2007 poll which saw widespread allegations of corruption , voter fraud and violence .
-lrb- 01.12.2010 -rrb- biafra war anniversary highlights nigeria ’ s uncertain future " biafra " was the taunt german children used for skinny kids in the late 60s - the term was synonymous with starvation .
it is now 40 years since the end of the biafra war , and nigeria 's future still hangs in the balance .
-lrb- 15.01.2010 -rrb- shell settles lawsuit over killing of nigerian activists european oil giant royal dutch shell has agreed to pay $ 15.5 million -lrb- 11.2 million euros -rrb- to the families of six nigerian activists executed in 1995 but has refused to accept any liability for the violence .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- feedback in your opinion , has shell done anything wrong by gaining influence in nigerian government ministeries ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
us-pakistan relations the new york times is reporting that the us is planning special operations in pakistan .
taliban expert ahmed rashid talks about the new york times report the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press opinion : wikileaks ' latest release is a diplomatic waterloo africa -pipe- 13.12.2010 wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell gained information on all aspects of nigeria 's oil business the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria . leaked us diplomatic cables from last year , carried by a number of international newspapers and magazines , show that royal dutch shell - among the major oil producers in nigeria - have infiltrated key nigerian ministries and have been using links to us officials to gain information on rival oil companies in the country , and the movements and objectives of militants in the niger delta region .
shell 's level of penetration into the governmental structure of nigeria - one of the world 's largest oil exporters - have given the company access to politicians and decision-makers at the highest level , providing it with insider knowledge of all movements and negotiations within those ministries .
according to dr. heinz jockers , a nigeria expert and a member of the eu election observation mission to nigeria , shell has personnel in the finance , interior , national planning , defense , environment , energy and foreign affairs ministries as well as influence over a number of presidential advisers , parliamentarians , governors , and high-ranked tribal rulers .
high level infiltration in major ministeries and oil-producing states " shell operatives - although they are unofficially employed by the company - have infiltrated the majority of the most important ministries in the nigerian government , " jockers told deutsche welle .
" they will of course also have their people in the ministries of the main oil-producing states . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell used nigerian sources to help secure its interests jockers said that the main aim of the shell operatives would be to gain information on everything which could in one way or the other affect the company 's business .
" areas of interest for these people would be the position of other competitors , be it companies or countries ; their offers regarding oil deals in nigeria , the pricing scale for oil in the country , and the level of governmental support for security , " he said .
the leaked cables show that shell had obtained information that nigeria had invited bids for oil concessions from china and was concerned at the possibility of increased competition from the people 's republic .
they also show that shell executives requested confirmation from us officials on russian gas giant gazprom 's interest in nigeria after information was obtained from ministerial channels .
jockers added that the practice of infiltration was so widespread that it is highly likely that other large companies have embedded personnel in governmental offices as this was the only way that advantages in business could be gained in nigeria .
" these could include : julius berger , chevron , hochtief , siemens , peugeot , haliburton , and mercedes , " he said .
" you have to remember : nigeria is a chaotic and highly corrupt country .
to do business there , you have to play the game . "
shell contacted us officials over delta militant threat bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell wanted us help with getting information on militants ann pickard , shell 's top executive in nigeria , was also revealed to have spoken to us officials in 2008 about the threat of militants in the niger delta which had , at its peak in 2006 , shut down a quarter of nigeria 's oil output .
an amnesty in 2009 ended the acts of sabotage being carried out on vulnerable pipelines and platforms , such as shell 's soku gas facility which had been the target of militant rocket attacks at the height of the so-called oil war .
" shell had been the main target of attacks by militants since the early 1990s , " heinrich bergstresser , a nigeria expert at the german institute of global and area studies -lrb- giga -rrb- in hamburg , told deutsche welle .
" the sabotages and attacks on shell 's installations , among others , were and are executed not just by militants but also orchestrated by complicit agents within the oil companies .
they benefit from the attacks because these people are very often also in charge of managing the payment of compensation which offers the opportunity to keep certain amounts of the payment for themselves . "
the cable dispatches from 2008 showed that shell 's pickard had contacted the us consulate in lagos with an offer to share " intelligence " on militant activity in exchange for information on a shipment of surface-to-air missiles which had allegedly been destined for nigerian militant groups in the delta region .
cables hint at shell 's involvement with local godfathers the cables describe how pickard was also unconvinced that a certain governor in the delta region " lacked the connections among rivers state militant leaders to successfully coopt them as the governors in delta and bayelsa states have done with militants in their states , " and that she believed the clash between the military and militants was " a proxy war for ongoing disputes " between rival governors .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : playing both sides in the delta struggle is a dangerous game this section of the cable transcripts hints at the possibility that shell has been attempting to use its influence to control local leaders , a comlicated and dangerous practice according to heinrich bergstresser .
" shell is playing with fire if it has or had any connection with the governors and militants , " he said .
" on the one hand , the oil companies can not control the governors but on the other hand they can try to persuade them to act in favor of the companies and in their own interest .
i am sure that they are paying certain amounts to the governors but that does not guarantee anything . "
bergstresser added that very often the oil companies find themselves caught between a rock and a hard place .
" the militias have emancipated themselves from their political godfathers and have started their own business of attacks and kidnappings so the oil companies find themselves sandwiched between profit-making , being threatened by militias , and keeping very close relationships with the federal government . "
author : nick amies editor : rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de illegal arms shipments to nigeria raise stakes ahead of 2011 elections general elections in nigeria are still several months away , but tensions are rising with memories still fresh of the 2007 poll which saw widespread allegations of corruption , voter fraud and violence .
-lrb- 01.12.2010 -rrb- biafra war anniversary highlights nigeria ’ s uncertain future " biafra " was the taunt german children used for skinny kids in the late 60s - the term was synonymous with starvation .
it is now 40 years since the end of the biafra war , and nigeria 's future still hangs in the balance .
-lrb- 15.01.2010 -rrb- shell settles lawsuit over killing of nigerian activists european oil giant royal dutch shell has agreed to pay $ 15.5 million -lrb- 11.2 million euros -rrb- to the families of six nigerian activists executed in 1995 but has refused to accept any liability for the violence .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- 02 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
all i want for christmas is ... -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de christmas -pipe- 13.12.2010 all i want for christmas is ... großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children have left instructions for christmas gift-givers for over a century toothpaste may seem like an unusual item on a christmas wish list - but over a century ago , it was n't so strange .
an exhibition in dortmund unveils the touching and sometimes comical history of holiday wish lists . in some countries , christmas presents are exchanged on the morning of december 25 , while most europeans give gifts on the evening of the 24th .
no matter when they 're unwrapped , it 's hard to imagine christmas without presents . the tradition , however , is relatively new .
it was n't until the end of the 19th century that gift-giving was associated with christmas in germany .
before that , st. nicholas brought presents to well-behaved children on december 6 . with the advent of gifts , it was only inevitable that children would help the givers - real and imagined - out with wish lists . " the development of the christmas gift-giving tradition mainly had to do with the fact that more presents and toys were available as a result of industrialization , " historian isolde parussel told deutsche welle . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a christmas gift table may have looked like this in the 19th century of course , not everyone could afford the new toys , but that did n't keep children from writing out their wishes . old toys made just like new parussel is behind the exhibition " … bring us many nice things , " which is currently on show at the museum of art and cultural history in the western german city of dortmund .
over 100 holiday wish lists are on display , along with decorative gift tables , toys and festive christmas trees from the past century . most of the items were collected from private households following a request published in german newspapers . some of the wish lists are addressed to st. nicholas or santa claus , but many were written to the ' christkind ' - a sprite-like child , usually depicted with blond hair and angelic wings . in one list from 1899 , a young girl hoped for " a dress for -lsb- my doll -rsb- fraenzchen , a set of colored pencils , a sailor 's hat for me " but also " calling cards and a tube of calodont tooth paste . "
at the end of the 19th century , tooth paste in tubes was extremely modern - something extraordinary even for a little girl . as the end of the girl 's letter reveals , gifts were n't necessarily expected to be new .
" and then , dear christkind , -lsb- my dolls -rsb- siegfried and dori need to be taken to the hospital .
dori 's hair is growing very sparsely on her head and her limbs are very droopy .
both of these things need to be fixed , " wrote the girl . despite having to organize presents for so many children , the christkind occasionally found time to write back .
one such letter - composed on a typewriter and dated christmas eve , 1911 - is included in the exhibition ; parussel suspects , of course , that it was written by the parents .
" the angels say that you and -lsb- your sister -rsb- staenzerl were n't very good doll mothers this year , " read the letter : " under these circumstances , entrusting you with a real baby seems to be too much of a responsibility . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : isolde parussel curated the dortmund exhibition apparently , the girls had wished for a sibling - a gift their parents apparently were n't yet willing to provide . some things do n't change the letters and lists offer insights into the everyday lives of various generations .
children from the post-world war ii generation wanted nothing more than a warm hat or a notebook for school .
one short generation later , one girl asked for a knee-length skirt , according to the trend of the time . the most recent wish list in the collection is from 2008 .
jascha from dortmund had cut out pictures from catalogues - complete with price tags - to illustrate his list , which mainly consisted of electronics . jascha 's wishes are expensive , but , when taking the standard of living into account , they 're not necessarily more valuable than the things children asked for a century ago , said parussel . " you ca n't necessarily say that this child is just focused on consumption , " she said .
he put just as much effort into his wish list , writing it neatly and decorating it with colored pencils . " author : sola huelsewig -lrb- kjb -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de toys r ' scarce in german stores toy makers and retailers in germany could n't be happier : christmas shoppers appear to have a near insatiable appetite for toys .
products from traditional european toymakers like lego and playmobil are in high demand .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- racism controversy dampens holland 's sinterklaas tradition children across europe eagerly await the arrival of st. nicholas on december 6 .
but in holland , the tradition has racist implications that the dutch are n't quite willing to give up .
-lrb- 05.12.2010 -rrb- ' dear christkind ' : a german post office answers christmas letters in the small town of engelskirchen , thousands of letters from around the world arrive at a seasonal christmas post office , all addressed to one person .
for over 20 years , postal workers have written back .
-lrb- 24.12.2009 -rrb- 02 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' german pop ' homepage somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
successful european tech startups continue to lag behind -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 successful european tech startups continue to lag behind großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : european startups still lag behind us counterparts after a series of recent european tech conferences , silicon valley continues to dominate .
tech venture capital on this side of the atlantic still remains relatively small , due to bureaucracy , language problems . it was hard to ignore the dominance of silicon valley at this year 's leweb tech conference last week in paris - nearly all the speakers and featured guests were from california 's famed tech hub .
while european innovation is picking up speed , it is starting from a long way behind the american startup scene - participants at the conference blamed over-cautious investors and misguided government spending .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : european venture capitalists have n't been investing in tech startups as long as they have been in silicon valley a vicious cycle in europe adventurous investors tend to be entrepreneurs themselves , so , where silicon valley has created a virtuous cycle , europe is faced with a chicken-and-egg situation : there 's not enough money because there are not enough start-ups , and there are not enough start-ups because there 's not enough money .
" i know quite a few companies that moved to the valley just because they found capital there , " said sarik weber , a german entrepreneur who runs the start-up incubator programme hanse ventures in hamburg .
his company provides capital and advice to new businesses .
" the whole silicon valley ecosystem is based on 40 to 50 years of entrepreneurs building their companies doing exits very successfully and then reinvesting this money back into the ecosystem , " he added . " this is what really fosters the european startup scene .
when we get great exits like skype or others , these people reinvest their money into european start-ups and we have to create that . "
while european governments spend more on research and development than their american and japanese counterparts , experts say that tax incentives and subsidies are not doing anything to encourage private-sector investors .
" the state is doing its job , but do the individual investors have enough confidence to invest more in research and development ? " said pierre monhen , who teaches innovation policy at the united nations university in maastricht , the netherlands .
" there is a more cautious attitude in europe than in the us . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some entrepeneurs claim that with the proper political direction , european startups could do much better poor european political decisions hinder innovation , entrepeneurs say but several entrepreneurs at leweb maintained that it is a political problem , and less of a problem of entrepeneurship . european governments , and the european union itself , may be spending money , but it is not very effective .
johan staeul von holstein , who has most recently founded mycube , a social networking startup based in singapore , thinks innovation could be encouraged with judicious tax reforms .
" there 's as much capital as you can possibly imagine around , " he said .
" it 's just that the wrong people are sitting on the capital .
politicians need to understand the value of entrepreneurship and innovation and growth , and by giving huge tax benefits to entrepreneurs making their own decisions and putting large amounts of money in the hands of entrepreneurs : that would change the whole system in 24 hours . "
a more serious problem is cultural attitudes and bad ideas , according to tariq krim , one of europe 's most successful entrepreneurs .
he set up jolicloud , a company that makes a linux-based operating system which can be installed on any computer .
he adds that spending on innovation is misguided , and tends to go to a few large companies rather than lots of small ones .
in 2008 , france , for example , invested 99 million euros -lrb- $ 131 million -rrb- in a new search engine called quearo , which was supposed to be a european answer to google .
since then , essentially nothing has happened and the project appears to be dead .
" they should have rather give money to 20 start ups , " krim said .
“ it has to be a competitive state about ideas . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many european startups , like slense , limit themselves to only a few languages , like english - making the european market a lot smaller .
heterogeneous language , culture slow european tech startups but beyond poor investment , the single european market may have simplified the movement of labor and money , but it has not created a single customer base .
freddy mini , who runs netvibes , a start-up that creates personalised dashboards on the web , pointed out that american companies automatically have a leg up , as they have a much more culturally and linguistically homogenous employment and customer base than their european counterparts .
in other words , he noted , european companies have to hire specialists for each corner of the continent .
" the first advice is forget your culture - get to the culture of the country where you live and hire people from the ground , " he said .
author : molly guinness , paris editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de niche search engines pick needles out of web haystacks several new search engines focus on segments of the web , like social networking or microblogging sites .
they are not looking to challenge google , but they are letting users search places that google ca n't reach .
-lrb- 22.09.2010 -rrb- swedish start-up offers new micro-donation system flattr lets readers donate by clicking buttons on blogs and other websites .
some sites have reported income of over 1,000 euros as a result of the new company .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- ‘ hubs ’ offer like-minded businesses a shared home as more people start businesses from home with nothing but a laptop , the rapidly growing ' hub ' network aims to create a mutually beneficial work environment that provides some of the perks of working for a larger firm .
-lrb- 21.07.2010 -rrb- 02 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ethnic mongolian dissident in china disappears -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 13.12.2010 ethnic mongolian dissident in china disappears großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prominent civil rights activist hada is one of china 's longest-jailed political prisoners inner mongolia is part of the people 's republic of china .
ethnic mongolians there have been fighting for their right to keep their cultural heritage alive .
their most prominent activist is hada , who has now gone missing . in 1996 a chinese court had convicted ethnic mongolian dissident hada on charges of separatism and espionage .
after he had served his 15-year jail term , everyone was awaiting his release .
he was supposed to return home last friday .
" we don ’ t have any knowledge about his whereabouts .
we have been in contact with two of his relatives .
until this morning they have told us that they don ’ t have any official statement from the chinese authorities about his whereabouts and condition , " says enghebatu togochog from the south mongolian human rights information center based in new york .
preserving mongolian identity the 55-year old hada has always tried to preserve the religious and cultural heritage of ethnic mongolians in china .
as a student , hada campaigned to save the mongolian identity under chinese rule : which meant language , religion , traditions and customs .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the autonomous region of inner mongolia is rich in natural resources and crucial for china 's economy corinna francis from amnesty international says the situation in inner mongolia is difficult : " there are serious restrictions on freedom of expression .
any statement of cultural identity is taken by the authorities as a kind of separatism or extremism .
they are discriminated against in terms of employment .
the mongolian language is at risk of being phased out in schools and the educational system . "
assimilating ethnic minorities the four million ethnic mongolians now form a minority among the eighteen million han chinese living in inner mongolia .
many say that the chinese government is trying to eradicate mongolian culture by imposing chinese culture on young mongolians – a strategy also used to assimilate ethnic minorities in tibet and xinjiang in western china .
hada opened the mongolian academic bookstore in the region 's capital , hohhot – a meeting point for activists demanding greater minority rights .
in 1992 hada and other mongolian intellectuals founded the southern mongolian democracy alliance .
it was the only mongolian organization of its kind within china.the organization ’ s goal was to push for political and social rights for mongolians .
the chinese constitution nominally grants self-governance and autonomy from beijing to ethnic minorities .
whereabouts unknown bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hada organized demonstrations during his student days hada was arrested and his southern mongolian democracy alliance was forbidden after a protest demonstration in 1995 .
hada should have been released on the same day that the nobel peace prize ceremony for liu xiaobo was being held last week .
but he has n't been seen since .
" well , some internet posts in chinese say that hada is dead and that a dead body was found .
but this is not very likely , " says togochog .
wife and son in custody to add to the confusion , some photos were anonymously posted on the internet shortly after the supposed release to prove that hada is still alive .
just days before hada was due to be released , his wife and son were taken into police custody .
their whereabouts are also unknown .
author : chi viet giang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de 47 ethnic minorites in xinjiang xinjiang is often associated with ethnic conflict between uighurs and the han chinese but there are many other ethnic communities in china 's biggest province .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- dalai lama turns 75 : question over his succession remains the tibetan spiritual leader , the dalai lama turns 75 on tuesday .
as the nobel laureate gets older , concerns are mounting over his succession .
-lrb- 05.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : a new chance for china 's democracy movement the massive protests by the chinese government against the nobel peace prize for liu xiaobo show just how afraid the leaders in beijing are of critics such as liu , deutsche welle 's adrienne woltersdorf argues .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- 02 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china party success china 's success depends on the communist party , but corruption might lead to catastrophe : hu foreign aid a helping hand the european commission has decided to help north korea tackle famine .
art ming vases chinese art collectors are traveling to europe to buy ancient works from their own country .
threatened communities preserving tribal communities and their habitats can help sustain the environment .
dr. james albert of the society for threatened peoples speaks about the dangers to tribals in india dw-tv europe live germany today - window on germany we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 13.12.2010 hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients back to first page back 2/2 doctors arrested , charged with plot " the hospital where we are now is witnessing the war from the other side , " he said .
dell 'aira and eight other colleagues , both italian and afghan , were arrested in april by a mixed group of afghan police and british troops .
the nine doctors were accused of participating in a plot to assassinate helmand 's governor , gulab mangal .
" the police claimed that we were handing information to the taliban and that they had even found weapons and explosives in one of our warehouses at the hospital , " the italian doctor said with a rueful smile .
" it 's a real shame what is happening here . "
the arrest came under the aegis of operation moshtarak -lrb- " together " in the afghan dari language -rrb- which was one of innumerable isaf military offensives in the region .
emergency complained that they were denied the establishment of a humanitarian corridor to evacuate the wounded from marjah , a nearby village which was heavily shelled for months .
finally , the detainees were released after nine days in jail without charges .
immediately afterward , gino strada , who founded emergency , said that the attempt to discredit his organization had failed .
he said emergency in afghanistan , especially in helmand province , was " an uncomfortable witness to what the coalition forces are doing here . "
yet more innocent victims the number of patients treated daily in the emergency hospital depends on how busy it is from day to day , said luca radaelli , one of emergency 's nurses .
" we have treated 400 patients in the past two months , but numbers can vary greatly depending on the day .
we can get 20 in one day , or just three , " he said .
after spending a day at emergency 's admission desk , the testimonies of the patients start to sound painfully familiar .
the location of the accident , and the means - gunshot , ied , mortar attack , - may change , but the victims ' profile is often recurrent : civilian , under 14 years old , with amputated limbs .
vague details , serious consequences like many others here , 15-year old shepherd ziacho still does n't know who shot off the rounds of ammunition that tore off his two legs .
" i was walking my flock in greshek -lrb- helmand -rrb- .
i remember i sat down to rest when i spotted a mine nearby .
i also saw a helicopter over me so i 'm not sure what caused the explosion , " he said .
next to him , 12-year-old mohamed listened to ziacho ´ s testimony with a blank stare .
in a low and breathy voice , he explained that he was on the roof of his house when he noticed an impact on his body .
" when they brought him here his liver was stuck onto his lungs .
it 's really a miracle that he 's still alive , " said radaelli .
bullet wounds are the most common cause of admission in this hospital , he added .
abdulwahid lost his leg in the middle of the crossfire .
" i was working in my farm when the battle began , " recalled the villager from musa qala .
" the fighting lasted between one and two hours .
in the end i felt a sharp pain in my chest and leg .
i could n't tell where the shot came from . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : abdulraziq 's meeting with an ied changed his life - and took his limb indeed it is often difficult to know just who is behind each attack in helmand province .
in addition to american and british soldiers , there are also estonians , canadians , danish , georgians and arabs from bahrain fighting in helmand .
and of course there are the taliban , or drug smugglers or , simply , road bandits .
mahmud khan , a patient at emergency , is a pashtun who had just had his right kidney removed . " i was shot when i was driving across delaram -lrb- nimroz -rrb- .
they were simply thieves who wanted my motorbike .
i wish i had given it to them from the very beginning , " he lamented .
and 12-year-old quadratullah , lying in the bed near khan , explained how he ended up in the hospital .
unfortunate house search " back in my village we spotted some people getting into an empty house .
we were most curious so we decided to see what was inside , " said quadratullah .
" i went first but i had to push the door hard because it was blocked .
then something exploded ... when i woke up here , my father told me it happened to be a warehouse where the taliban stored their weapons and explosives . "
quadratullah tells the story with the composure and the distance of somebody who has not yet had time to reflect on what has happened .
his apparent state of shock seems like a mechanism to prevent him from thinking about what kind of life awaits a kid from afghanistan who 's lost his right eye and arm , and both his legs , in a seemingly endless war .
" one has to get used to this suffering in order to survive here , but it is not easy , " said radaelli said , visibly moved .
his six-months rotation is almost over and the ngo requires its workers to rest for at least a few weeks before resuming their jobs - a well deserved oxygen break before diving again into the horror of the afghan war .
author : karlos zurutuza editor : jennifer abramsohn back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opposition blasts visit to afghanistan by defense minister and wife german defense minister karl theodor zu guttenberg is in afghanistan on an unannounced visit with his wife stephanie .
it ’ s the first time a german defense minister is being accompanied by his wife to a warzone .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- local builders risk losing out in afghanistan 's helmand province us marines and local businessmen are laying down the foundations for reconstruction in one of the taliban 's biggest strongholds in afghanistan .
but helmand is likely to remain a place where many die and a few get rich .
-lrb- 16.10.2010 -rrb- operation to remove taliban from marjah sends thousands fleeing the civilian population of marjah , a farming community in helmand , afghanistan , are fleeing ahead of a huge nato operation designed to defeat the entrenched taliban in the region and restore government control .
-lrb- 10.02.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the ngos on the ground in afghanistan can sigificantly impact the war there ?
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press opinion : wikileaks ' latest release is a diplomatic waterloo africa -pipe- 13.12.2010 wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell gained information on all aspects of nigeria 's oil business the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria . leaked us diplomatic cables from last year , carried by a number of international newspapers and magazines , show that royal dutch shell - among the major oil producers in nigeria - have infiltrated key nigerian ministries and have been using links to us officials to gain information on rival oil companies in the country , and the movements and objectives of militants in the niger delta region .
shell 's level of penetration into the governmental structure of nigeria - one of the world 's largest oil exporters - have given the company access to politicians and decision-makers at the highest level , providing it with insider knowledge of all movements and negotiations within those ministries .
according to dr. heinz jockers , a nigeria expert and a member of the eu election observation mission to nigeria , shell has personnel in the finance , interior , national planning , defense , environment , energy and foreign affairs ministries as well as influence over a number of presidential advisers , parliamentarians , governors , and high-ranked tribal rulers .
high level infiltration in major ministeries and oil-producing states " shell operatives - although they are unofficially employed by the company - have infiltrated the majority of the most important ministries in the nigerian government , " jockers told deutsche welle .
" they will of course also have their people in the ministries of the main oil-producing states . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell used nigerian sources to help secure its interests jockers said that the main aim of the shell operatives would be to gain information on everything which could in one way or the other affect the company 's business .
" areas of interest for these people would be the position of other competitors , be it companies or countries ; their offers regarding oil deals in nigeria , the pricing scale for oil in the country , and the level of governmental support for security , " he said .
the leaked cables show that shell had obtained information that nigeria had invited bids for oil concessions from china and was concerned at the possibility of increased competition from the people 's republic .
they also show that shell executives requested confirmation from us officials on russian gas giant gazprom 's interest in nigeria after information was obtained from ministerial channels .
jockers added that the practice of infiltration was so widespread that it is highly likely that other large companies have embedded personnel in governmental offices as this was the only way that advantages in business could be gained in nigeria .
" these could include : julius berger , chevron , hochtief , siemens , peugeot , haliburton , and mercedes , " he said .
" you have to remember : nigeria is a chaotic and highly corrupt country .
to do business there , you have to play the game . "
shell contacted us officials over delta militant threat bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell wanted us help with getting information on militants ann pickard , shell 's top executive in nigeria , was also revealed to have spoken to us officials in 2008 about the threat of militants in the niger delta which had , at its peak in 2006 , shut down a quarter of nigeria 's oil output .
an amnesty in 2009 ended the acts of sabotage being carried out on vulnerable pipelines and platforms , such as shell 's soku gas facility which had been the target of militant rocket attacks at the height of the so-called oil war .
" shell had been the main target of attacks by militants since the early 1990s , " heinrich bergstresser , a nigeria expert at the german institute of global and area studies -lrb- giga -rrb- in hamburg , told deutsche welle .
" the sabotages and attacks on shell 's installations , among others , were and are executed not just by militants but also orchestrated by complicit agents within the oil companies .
they benefit from the attacks because these people are very often also in charge of managing the payment of compensation which offers the opportunity to keep certain amounts of the payment for themselves . "
the cable dispatches from 2008 showed that shell 's pickard had contacted the us consulate in lagos with an offer to share " intelligence " on militant activity in exchange for information on a shipment of surface-to-air missiles which had allegedly been destined for nigerian militant groups in the delta region .
cables hint at shell 's involvement with local godfathers the cables describe how pickard was also unconvinced that a certain governor in the delta region " lacked the connections among rivers state militant leaders to successfully coopt them as the governors in delta and bayelsa states have done with militants in their states , " and that she believed the clash between the military and militants was " a proxy war for ongoing disputes " between rival governors .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : playing both sides in the delta struggle is a dangerous game this section of the cable transcripts hints at the possibility that shell has been attempting to use its influence to control local leaders , a comlicated and dangerous practice according to heinrich bergstresser .
" shell is playing with fire if it has or had any connection with the governors and militants , " he said .
" on the one hand , the oil companies can not control the governors but on the other hand they can try to persuade them to act in favor of the companies and in their own interest .
i am sure that they are paying certain amounts to the governors but that does not guarantee anything . "
bergstresser added that very often the oil companies find themselves caught between a rock and a hard place .
" the militias have emancipated themselves from their political godfathers and have started their own business of attacks and kidnappings so the oil companies find themselves sandwiched between profit-making , being threatened by militias , and keeping very close relationships with the federal government . "
author : nick amies editor : rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de illegal arms shipments to nigeria raise stakes ahead of 2011 elections general elections in nigeria are still several months away , but tensions are rising with memories still fresh of the 2007 poll which saw widespread allegations of corruption , voter fraud and violence .
-lrb- 01.12.2010 -rrb- biafra war anniversary highlights nigeria ’ s uncertain future " biafra " was the taunt german children used for skinny kids in the late 60s - the term was synonymous with starvation .
it is now 40 years since the end of the biafra war , and nigeria 's future still hangs in the balance .
-lrb- 15.01.2010 -rrb- shell settles lawsuit over killing of nigerian activists european oil giant royal dutch shell has agreed to pay $ 15.5 million -lrb- 11.2 million euros -rrb- to the families of six nigerian activists executed in 1995 but has refused to accept any liability for the violence .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- feedback in your opinion , has shell done anything wrong by gaining influence in nigerian government ministeries ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
all i want for christmas is ... -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de christmas -pipe- 13.12.2010 all i want for christmas is ... großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children have left instructions for christmas gift-givers for over a century toothpaste may seem like an unusual item on a christmas wish list - but over a century ago , it was n't so strange .
an exhibition in dortmund unveils the touching and sometimes comical history of holiday wish lists . in some countries , christmas presents are exchanged on the morning of december 25 , while most europeans give gifts on the evening of the 24th .
no matter when they 're unwrapped , it 's hard to imagine christmas without presents . the tradition , however , is relatively new .
it was n't until the end of the 19th century that gift-giving was associated with christmas in germany .
before that , st. nicholas brought presents to well-behaved children on december 6 . with the advent of gifts , it was only inevitable that children would help the givers - real and imagined - out with wish lists . " the development of the christmas gift-giving tradition mainly had to do with the fact that more presents and toys were available as a result of industrialization , " historian isolde parussel told deutsche welle . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a christmas gift table may have looked like this in the 19th century of course , not everyone could afford the new toys , but that did n't keep children from writing out their wishes . old toys made just like new parussel is behind the exhibition " … bring us many nice things , " which is currently on show at the museum of art and cultural history in the western german city of dortmund .
over 100 holiday wish lists are on display , along with decorative gift tables , toys and festive christmas trees from the past century . most of the items were collected from private households following a request published in german newspapers . some of the wish lists are addressed to st. nicholas or santa claus , but many were written to the ' christkind ' - a sprite-like child , usually depicted with blond hair and angelic wings . in one list from 1899 , a young girl hoped for " a dress for -lsb- my doll -rsb- fraenzchen , a set of colored pencils , a sailor 's hat for me " but also " calling cards and a tube of calodont tooth paste . "
at the end of the 19th century , tooth paste in tubes was extremely modern - something extraordinary even for a little girl . as the end of the girl 's letter reveals , gifts were n't necessarily expected to be new .
" and then , dear christkind , -lsb- my dolls -rsb- siegfried and dori need to be taken to the hospital .
dori 's hair is growing very sparsely on her head and her limbs are very droopy .
both of these things need to be fixed , " wrote the girl . despite having to organize presents for so many children , the christkind occasionally found time to write back .
one such letter - composed on a typewriter and dated christmas eve , 1911 - is included in the exhibition ; parussel suspects , of course , that it was written by the parents .
" the angels say that you and -lsb- your sister -rsb- staenzerl were n't very good doll mothers this year , " read the letter : " under these circumstances , entrusting you with a real baby seems to be too much of a responsibility . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : isolde parussel curated the dortmund exhibition apparently , the girls had wished for a sibling - a gift their parents apparently were n't yet willing to provide . some things do n't change the letters and lists offer insights into the everyday lives of various generations .
children from the post-world war ii generation wanted nothing more than a warm hat or a notebook for school .
one short generation later , one girl asked for a knee-length skirt , according to the trend of the time . the most recent wish list in the collection is from 2008 .
jascha from dortmund had cut out pictures from catalogues - complete with price tags - to illustrate his list , which mainly consisted of electronics . jascha 's wishes are expensive , but , when taking the standard of living into account , they 're not necessarily more valuable than the things children asked for a century ago , said parussel . " you ca n't necessarily say that this child is just focused on consumption , " she said .
he put just as much effort into his wish list , writing it neatly and decorating it with colored pencils . " author : sola huelsewig -lrb- kjb -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de toys r ' scarce in german stores toy makers and retailers in germany could n't be happier : christmas shoppers appear to have a near insatiable appetite for toys .
products from traditional european toymakers like lego and playmobil are in high demand .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- racism controversy dampens holland 's sinterklaas tradition children across europe eagerly await the arrival of st. nicholas on december 6 .
but in holland , the tradition has racist implications that the dutch are n't quite willing to give up .
-lrb- 05.12.2010 -rrb- ' dear christkind ' : a german post office answers christmas letters in the small town of engelskirchen , thousands of letters from around the world arrive at a seasonal christmas post office , all addressed to one person .
for over 20 years , postal workers have written back .
-lrb- 24.12.2009 -rrb- feedback do you have a special christmas tradition in your family ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
dw partner site our reporter sets off on an unusual journey across berlin - on cross country skis .
watch the report podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski subscribe on itunes get the rss feed visit germany dw-tv tells you the top things to visit in this fun rhineland city .
" recommended " as video on demand download here -lrb- mp4 -rrb- cologne cologne carnival the claudius therme ' suenner im walfisch ' brewery -lrb- german -rrb- word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 13.12.2010 hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamed does n't know who fired the bullets that hit him a visit to the two hospitals in the war-torn helmand region of afghanistan exposes the horrors that innocent civilians , so-called collateral damage caught in the crossfire , experience in modern wartime . " no weapons allowed beyond this point , " reads a sign at the entrance of boost hospital in lashkar gah , afghanistan .
such advice may be redundant elsewhere , but here at boost it is as much a declaration of principle as a regulation .
lashkar gah is the capital of helmand province - one of afghanistan 's biggest battlefields .
the region may look like a wasteland but it is still able to produce more heroin than anywhere else in the rest of the world .
in a place like this , travelling often means taking roads that may be laid with explosives , or shelled by helicopters .
it 's little wonder , then , that common health problems often become real emergencies .
no questions asked " we do not ask anyone which side they belong to , or who injured them .
our work is limited to offering free medical care to anyone who comes to the hospital , " says stefano argenziano .
he is the project coordinator for doctors without borders - known by its french acronym msf - in helmand province .
accordingly , nobody at boost speaks of " taliban terrorists ; " they use the term " government opposition " instead .
there are more than 2,000 ngos registered in kabul , but just a handful of these have a field presence .
msf is one of those rare groups .
it relies solely on private funds and , unlike many other groups , does not have paid soldiers protecting the safety of its staff .
even the usual barbed wire and sandbags are n't to be found at the camp where msf staff lodges .
" we try not to be in the same place as foreign troops .
nonetheless , our best calling card is our work , " argenziano said .
" we have earned the respect of local people because everybody knows what we are all about . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a sign tells you not to take your gun into the hospital msf resumed its work in afghanistan after an absence of five years , following the murder of five of its staff in badghis province in 2004 .
their humanitarian mission in lashkar gah , supporting boost hospital , was launched in november , 2009 .
boost is one of the two reference hospitals in the war-torn south of the country , alongside the one in kandahar .
a reference hospital is the term used by the world health organization for hospitals that accept complex cases for cutting-edge diagnosis and treatment .
ilona is a nurse who arrived in afghanistan from germany two years ago .
today , she moves gently but swiftly through the sea of blue burkhas in the female section of boost hospital .
patients from all over " many of the cases we handle deal with malnutrition in infants after drinking cow or goat milk .
their mothers are anemic and ca n't breast-feed , so the children suffer from chronic gastroenteritis because they are unable to process the animal milk , " she said .
there are also afghan nurses at boost , and assadullah - a native of the relatively peaceful northern region mazar , is one of them .
" we also treat those hospitalized for an overdose of heroin or simply the most direct victims of this war , " she said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : did the british wound - then save- ihmatullah ? -lrb- right -rrb- civilian casualties and deaths continue to increase in afghanistan , despite a commitment by nato troops to avoid them .
un figures suggest isaf troops are causing less " collateral damage " - army-speak for injured civilians - but insurgents continue to target civilians , so casualties are rising .
a un report on civilian casualties in afghanistan , released in the summer of 2010 , showed civilian deaths and injuries in the country had increased by 31 percent from a year earlier , to 3,268 . the un attributed 76 per cent of these incidents to insurgents – up from 53 per cent in 2009 .
mistaken for taliban ?
at boost , msf is primarily responsible for pediatrics and maternity .
but its not hard to find direct victims of the war as well .
take sharifullah , for instance .
a 16-year-old boy , he was shot in the stomach during the celebrations of the end of ramadan .
his older brother , abdullhaq , says he believes the wound came from british troops .
" it came from a british convoy .
the kids began to run alongside the road .
the soldiers probably took them for a gang of talibs and shot , " abdullhaq said .
he added that four months ago , four children in his village were killed the same way .
assadullah , who was briefing sharifullah on how to walk with crutches , said such cases of injury via coalition fire were " unfortunately very common " at boost .
ihmatullah , a 16-year-old shepherd from musa qala , was also possibly injured by coalition fire .
he was hit by rocket shrapnel one night while he was sleeping outdoors .
according to his father , abdulwazid , it was the british who wounded his son - then stabilized him and brought him to boost .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : six-year-old daudchan lost a leg ; his brother lost two laura mendikoa is an experienced nurse from mexico who has worked around the world , doing stints in liberia , somalia , kenya and mexico - and now helmland .
" back home life is doubtless more comfortable but it 's much more rewarding here , " she said .
mendikoa 's job one recent day was treating abdulraziq , a 13-year old from neighboring farah province who was admitted three weeks earlier after he had a life-changing encounter with an ied , or improvised explosive device .
he lost an eye and his right hand in the blast .
ieds and other tragedies sudden tragedy also changed the lives of six-year-old daudchan and his four-year-old brother , mahmadullah .
daudchan lost his leg , and his brother lost both legs .
" they were travelling with their father on a motorcycle when they had the misfortune of running over an ied , " the children 's grandfather said , holding daudchan 's bandaged stump .
" my son was luckier : he has only lost the toes of his right foot , " he added in a resigned voice .
in the building adjacent to boost hospital , an italian ngo callled emergency runs a hospital that specializes in treating the war-wounded , specializing in victims of land mines .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : doctor matteo dell 'aira was arrested and held in afghanistan at the entrance one friday , a smiling child gave his three-fingered hand to a visitor to shake .
but the child was no longer a patient - he was there to see his brother .
friday is not only a day of prayer , it 's a day to visit wounded relatives in the hospital .
the emergency hospital in lashkar gah has been in operation since 2004 , and it is the third one the milan-based ngo runs in afghanistan .
the other two are in the northern districts of panjshir and kabul , open since 1999 and 2001 respectively .
not surprisingly , the one in lashkar gah is the busiest of the three .
around 90 percent of the patients admitted are civilians - and 40 percent of those are children , according to matteo dell 'aira , the local medical coordinator .
read more on the plight of afghan civilians 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opposition blasts visit to afghanistan by defense minister and wife german defense minister karl theodor zu guttenberg is in afghanistan on an unannounced visit with his wife stephanie .
it ’ s the first time a german defense minister is being accompanied by his wife to a warzone .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- local builders risk losing out in afghanistan 's helmand province us marines and local businessmen are laying down the foundations for reconstruction in one of the taliban 's biggest strongholds in afghanistan .
but helmand is likely to remain a place where many die and a few get rich .
-lrb- 16.10.2010 -rrb- operation to remove taliban from marjah sends thousands fleeing the civilian population of marjah , a farming community in helmand , afghanistan , are fleeing ahead of a huge nato operation designed to defeat the entrenched taliban in the region and restore government control .
-lrb- 10.02.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the ngos on the ground in afghanistan can sigificantly impact the war there ?
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
violence in nigeria nigeria has been rocked once again by ethnic clashes between christians and muslims .
watch the video the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 13.12.2010 uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stop and listen this christmas , says cage against the machine a uk campaign aims to rock the christmas single charts - with the sound of silence .
they 're using experimentalist composer john cage 's masterpiece of silence , 4 ' 33 " , to get people listening to the needs around them . it all started as a joke . last year , a uk campaign succeeded in its aim of preventing the winner of casting show x-factor from becoming christmas number one by encouraging people to help " killing in the name " by us band rage against the machine top the charts . this year , uk art therapy masters student dave hilliard quipped to his friends , " let 's get silence to number one . " " it was meant to be a joke , " julie hilliard , dave hilliard 's wife and co-initiator of cage against the machine -lrb- catm -rrb- , told deutsche welle .
" but it captured the imagination of so many people . " when it comes to getting silence on the charts , the avant-garde work " 4 ' 33 " by american experimental composer john cage -lrb- 1912-1992 -rrb- is the first that comes to mind .
the score calls for any combination of musicians to go on stage and play absolutely nothing for exactly four minutes and 33 seconds .
for some , an agonizing exercise in patience ; for others , ear-opening proof that escape from the unceasing aural bombardment of our multimedia society is , indeed , possible . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john cage was fascinated by incidental sound open your ears the hilliards , along with long-time friend and music pr expert john rogers , are less interested in making a profound artistic statement and keener raising money for a few underfunded charities . starting monday , december 13 , supporters can purchase a specially recorded version of cage 's groundbreaking 1952 work , which included the participation of artists like aeroplane , billy bragg and kooks - though , of course , they ca n't really be heard . they recorded their own version to ensure that the revenue went directly to selected charities , but also because most other editions separate the work 's three movements into three tracks - but only single tracks are eligible for the single charts . revenue from the recordings and from ads on the groups website go to charities like c.a.l.m. , which provides support to young men considering suicide , the british tinnitus association , and organizations that offer music education to underprivileged children . " when you stop talking and you start to look at the world around you , you can see all these other needs that are there , besides your own , " said julie hilliard , adding that the charities they chose particularly reflected their appeal to stop and listen . ' cage would approve ' new york-based john cage expert richard kostelanetz said he did n't think the composer would have objected to the use of his work in this way . " he lived on a very busy avenue and did n't own a record player , because he preferred to listen to the noise outside his house , " kostelanetz told deutsche welle . the cage expert added that the setting of the work is crucial to making it a work of art and that the irony is so much stronger when it is performed by renowned artists - like those involved in catm .
the audience is bound to listen even more intently , knowing what they could be hearing from those artists , if they were actually playing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the black eyed peas are number one this week taking back the charts with more than 80,000 facebook fans as of december 13 , cage against the machine may be well on its way to rocking the uk 's christmas charts . they 'll have stiff competition from black eyed peas , who top this week 's singles chart in the uk with " the time -lrb- dirty bit -rrb- " and from matt cardle , the most recent winner of the uk 's popular casting show , x factor . the media has largely focused on the cage against the machine campaign as a counterpoint to market-tailored pop ballade and , specifically , to x factor .
however , hilliard said she and her husband have nothing against the casting show , but simply are n't interested in watching it . " if you do n't like it , do n't turn it on ; if you do n't like the record , do n't buy it , " she said . and if cage against the machine has its way , christmas eve in the uk will truly be a silent night - or at least one filled with incidental noise . author : kate bowen editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de music hotel brings new beat to berlin berlin 's new music hotel , nhow , combines luxury , design and quality musical facilities .
it hopes to bridge the gap between international and local artists - but the city 's underground scene is n't easily impressed .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- young german pianist unites classical music with world of video games benyamin nuss , 21 , has been wowing audiences in some of europe 's finest concert halls with solo piano interpretations of video game music by nobuo uematsu .
he spoke to deutsche welle about this unusual project .
-lrb- 04.12.2010 -rrb- france to start carte musique digital music subsidy plan france hopes to change young shoppers ' habits by subsidizing the sale of music with a " music card . "
but the government has not yet said which online services people will be able to use to make purchases .
-lrb- 27.10.2010 -rrb- 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
culture calendar july happenings from wagner to world music - find out what 's going on in germany 's cultural scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's free podcast series .
somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern ' german pop ' homepage word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ethnic mongolian dissident in china disappears -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de human rights -pipe- 13.12.2010 ethnic mongolian dissident in china disappears großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : prominent civil rights activist hada is one of china 's longest-jailed political prisoners inner mongolia is part of the people 's republic of china .
ethnic mongolians there have been fighting for their right to keep their cultural heritage alive .
their most prominent activist is hada , who has now gone missing . in 1996 a chinese court had convicted ethnic mongolian dissident hada on charges of separatism and espionage .
after he had served his 15-year jail term , everyone was awaiting his release .
he was supposed to return home last friday .
" we don ’ t have any knowledge about his whereabouts .
we have been in contact with two of his relatives .
until this morning they have told us that they don ’ t have any official statement from the chinese authorities about his whereabouts and condition , " says enghebatu togochog from the south mongolian human rights information center based in new york .
preserving mongolian identity the 55-year old hada has always tried to preserve the religious and cultural heritage of ethnic mongolians in china .
as a student , hada campaigned to save the mongolian identity under chinese rule : which meant language , religion , traditions and customs .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the autonomous region of inner mongolia is rich in natural resources and crucial for china 's economy corinna francis from amnesty international says the situation in inner mongolia is difficult : " there are serious restrictions on freedom of expression .
any statement of cultural identity is taken by the authorities as a kind of separatism or extremism .
they are discriminated against in terms of employment .
the mongolian language is at risk of being phased out in schools and the educational system . "
assimilating ethnic minorities the four million ethnic mongolians now form a minority among the eighteen million han chinese living in inner mongolia .
many say that the chinese government is trying to eradicate mongolian culture by imposing chinese culture on young mongolians – a strategy also used to assimilate ethnic minorities in tibet and xinjiang in western china .
hada opened the mongolian academic bookstore in the region 's capital , hohhot – a meeting point for activists demanding greater minority rights .
in 1992 hada and other mongolian intellectuals founded the southern mongolian democracy alliance .
it was the only mongolian organization of its kind within china.the organization ’ s goal was to push for political and social rights for mongolians .
the chinese constitution nominally grants self-governance and autonomy from beijing to ethnic minorities .
whereabouts unknown bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : hada organized demonstrations during his student days hada was arrested and his southern mongolian democracy alliance was forbidden after a protest demonstration in 1995 .
hada should have been released on the same day that the nobel peace prize ceremony for liu xiaobo was being held last week .
but he has n't been seen since .
" well , some internet posts in chinese say that hada is dead and that a dead body was found .
but this is not very likely , " says togochog .
wife and son in custody to add to the confusion , some photos were anonymously posted on the internet shortly after the supposed release to prove that hada is still alive .
just days before hada was due to be released , his wife and son were taken into police custody .
their whereabouts are also unknown .
author : chi viet giang editor : arun chowdhury send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de 47 ethnic minorites in xinjiang xinjiang is often associated with ethnic conflict between uighurs and the han chinese but there are many other ethnic communities in china 's biggest province .
-lrb- 01.07.2010 -rrb- dalai lama turns 75 : question over his succession remains the tibetan spiritual leader , the dalai lama turns 75 on tuesday .
as the nobel laureate gets older , concerns are mounting over his succession .
-lrb- 05.07.2010 -rrb- opinion : a new chance for china 's democracy movement the massive protests by the chinese government against the nobel peace prize for liu xiaobo show just how afraid the leaders in beijing are of critics such as liu , deutsche welle 's adrienne woltersdorf argues .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
international relations great game as international troops withdraw from afghanistan , islamabad is concerned for the future .
dw-tv europe live in focus - documentaries and reports we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
successful european tech startups continue to lag behind -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 successful european tech startups continue to lag behind großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : european startups still lag behind us counterparts after a series of recent european tech conferences , silicon valley continues to dominate .
tech venture capital on this side of the atlantic still remains relatively small , due to bureaucracy , language problems . it was hard to ignore the dominance of silicon valley at this year 's leweb tech conference last week in paris - nearly all the speakers and featured guests were from california 's famed tech hub .
while european innovation is picking up speed , it is starting from a long way behind the american startup scene - participants at the conference blamed over-cautious investors and misguided government spending .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : european venture capitalists have n't been investing in tech startups as long as they have been in silicon valley a vicious cycle in europe adventurous investors tend to be entrepreneurs themselves , so , where silicon valley has created a virtuous cycle , europe is faced with a chicken-and-egg situation : there 's not enough money because there are not enough start-ups , and there are not enough start-ups because there 's not enough money .
" i know quite a few companies that moved to the valley just because they found capital there , " said sarik weber , a german entrepreneur who runs the start-up incubator programme hanse ventures in hamburg .
his company provides capital and advice to new businesses .
" the whole silicon valley ecosystem is based on 40 to 50 years of entrepreneurs building their companies doing exits very successfully and then reinvesting this money back into the ecosystem , " he added . " this is what really fosters the european startup scene .
when we get great exits like skype or others , these people reinvest their money into european start-ups and we have to create that . "
while european governments spend more on research and development than their american and japanese counterparts , experts say that tax incentives and subsidies are not doing anything to encourage private-sector investors .
" the state is doing its job , but do the individual investors have enough confidence to invest more in research and development ? " said pierre monhen , who teaches innovation policy at the united nations university in maastricht , the netherlands .
" there is a more cautious attitude in europe than in the us . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some entrepeneurs claim that with the proper political direction , european startups could do much better poor european political decisions hinder innovation , entrepeneurs say but several entrepreneurs at leweb maintained that it is a political problem , and less of a problem of entrepeneurship . european governments , and the european union itself , may be spending money , but it is not very effective .
johan staeul von holstein , who has most recently founded mycube , a social networking startup based in singapore , thinks innovation could be encouraged with judicious tax reforms .
" there 's as much capital as you can possibly imagine around , " he said .
" it 's just that the wrong people are sitting on the capital .
politicians need to understand the value of entrepreneurship and innovation and growth , and by giving huge tax benefits to entrepreneurs making their own decisions and putting large amounts of money in the hands of entrepreneurs : that would change the whole system in 24 hours . "
a more serious problem is cultural attitudes and bad ideas , according to tariq krim , one of europe 's most successful entrepreneurs .
he set up jolicloud , a company that makes a linux-based operating system which can be installed on any computer .
he adds that spending on innovation is misguided , and tends to go to a few large companies rather than lots of small ones .
in 2008 , france , for example , invested 99 million euros -lrb- $ 131 million -rrb- in a new search engine called quearo , which was supposed to be a european answer to google .
since then , essentially nothing has happened and the project appears to be dead .
" they should have rather give money to 20 start ups , " krim said .
“ it has to be a competitive state about ideas . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many european startups , like slense , limit themselves to only a few languages , like english - making the european market a lot smaller .
heterogeneous language , culture slow european tech startups but beyond poor investment , the single european market may have simplified the movement of labor and money , but it has not created a single customer base .
freddy mini , who runs netvibes , a start-up that creates personalised dashboards on the web , pointed out that american companies automatically have a leg up , as they have a much more culturally and linguistically homogenous employment and customer base than their european counterparts .
in other words , he noted , european companies have to hire specialists for each corner of the continent .
" the first advice is forget your culture - get to the culture of the country where you live and hire people from the ground , " he said .
author : molly guinness , paris editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de niche search engines pick needles out of web haystacks several new search engines focus on segments of the web , like social networking or microblogging sites .
they are not looking to challenge google , but they are letting users search places that google ca n't reach .
-lrb- 22.09.2010 -rrb- swedish start-up offers new micro-donation system flattr lets readers donate by clicking buttons on blogs and other websites .
some sites have reported income of over 1,000 euros as a result of the new company .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- ‘ hubs ’ offer like-minded businesses a shared home as more people start businesses from home with nothing but a laptop , the rapidly growing ' hub ' network aims to create a mutually beneficial work environment that provides some of the perks of working for a larger firm .
-lrb- 21.07.2010 -rrb- 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new red shirt leader eyes the path of peace -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 13.12.2010 new red shirt leader eyes the path of peace großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thida thavornseth , center with microphone , at a rally in bangkok last friday in thailand , efforts are continuing to overcome the social and political divisions highlighted by massive anti-government protests earlier this year .
the red shirts have a new leader , thida thavornseth . seven months after the thai military used force to end anti-government protests in central bangkok ’ s commercial district of rajprasong , thousands attended an open-air concert there .
it featured a new symphony by thai composer somtow sucharitkul , played by a 150-member orchestra and choir .
the performance marked a further step to overcome deep rifts within thai society .
somtow , who wrote the symphony to honor thai king bhumipol adulyadej , said achieving reconciliation remains a challenge .
" there is an enormous amount of anger , and the whole concept of winning and losing and coming back is not deeply engrained in our culture " , somtow told deutsche welle .
" this is a culture that in the past has been really driven by the idea of vengeance in many ways , and this is something that we have to overcome .
i feel that if i can ’ t do it with words , perhaps i can do it with music . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thai soldiers suppressed red shirt protests with force in may the clashes between protesters and security forces for more than two months left 91 people dead and almost 2,000 injured .
the protests were led by the so-called red shirts , largely supporting former prime minister thaksin shinawatra .
after a coup ousted thaksin in 2006 , two more pro-thaksin governments were forced to stand down by court decisions .
red shirts in disarray but after the army clampdown in spring , the red shirt movement has been in disarray .
many of its leaders were arrested or fled the country .
the new acting chairwoman thida thavornseth is no stranger to thai politics .
her husband , weng tojirakarn is in jail along with other red shirt leaders .
thida said she took up the leadership amid fears that hard-line elements were planning to take over .
" we have to find a leader to lead people in the right way , and we want to keep the movement peaceful , " she said . " otherwise the democracy movement – our democracy movement – may be destroyed , as some people want to destroy the peaceful movement . "
thailand remains deeply divided .
many among the rural poor and the urban working class continue to support thaksin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thailand 's prime minister abhisit vejjajiva preparing for next year 's elections the government , led by prime minister abhisit vejjajiva ’ s democrat party , has launched investigations into the bloodshed along with a truth for reconciliation commission .
but progress has been mixed , and thida is skeptical .
" the first thing you have to find is the truth , and justice for the people .
only then you can move on towards reconciliation . "
chris baker , an author and commentator on thai politics , said the red shirts ' main focus will be to support the pro-thaksin puea thai party ahead of the general elections . " they are very much concentrated on when the next election will be and how that will be managed .
then there ’ s a lot of pushing and shoving , so it ’ s far from simple , " said baker .
" so that ’ s what people are concentrating on , not court cases and reconciliation commissions . "
on the weekend , by-election victories for the democrat party and its coalition partner provided a short-term boost for the government .
author : ron corben -lrb- bangkok -rrb- editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de press freedom in thailand is on the wane according to this year 's reporters without borders press freedom index , thailand is down from place 130 in 2009 to 153 out of 178 nations .
the government has been using an emergency decree to target opposition media .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- tensions between cambodia and thailand over red shirts cambodia has strongly denied accusations from thailand that anti-government red shirt protesters were trained at a cambodian military base in a plot to assassinate top thai leaders .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- thailand 's new army chief takes office general prayuth chan-ocha replaces anupong paochinda at a time when thailand remains divided into two political camps .
-lrb- 01.10.2010 -rrb- 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
china exploding watermelons some beijing housewives grow vegetables at home because they do n't trust the market .
nuclear health scare a health scare hits japan as radioactive beef finds its way into supermarkets across the country .
music beijing love song five german exchange students have become stars in china after rapping a love song to the capital .
dw-tv europe live people and politics - the political magazine we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : online vigilantes have taken to their keyboards following the arrest in the netherlands of two teenagers involved in last week 's distributed denial of service attacks against mastercard , lawyers tell young hackers to be aware of the law . on saturday , a second dutch teenager , 19 , was arrested for having been part of a cyberattack that targeted the dutch public prosecutor 's website .
the prosecutor 's site became a target after the dutch prosecutor arrested another dutch teenager , 16 , who had joined an online " hacktivist " attack in the name of wikileaks .
this is just the latest in a series of attacks against perceived enemies of wikileaks largely by a group of its supporters , a shadowy online vigilante group that calls itself anonymous .
" any individual , organization , corporation , and / or government entity which supports freedom of speech and a free internet is an ally of anonymous , " the organization said on its website . " if you work to suppress freedom of expression and a free internet your efforts will be halted . "
the group is more like a semi-controlled herd rather than a traditional heirarchical organization - it does not have clear leadership or direction .
previously , it targeted the church of scientology and the website of the recording industry association of america .
but now that some have been caught for their alleged crimes , it may serve as a legal warning shot to those who feel that they can hide in this hacktivist huddle .
misused technology this time around , in response to the wikileaks case , anonymous followers have been using a computer application known as low orbit ion canon -lrb- loic -rrb- .
using this software , these hacktivists , managed to temporarily disable a number of major financial companý websites , including mastercard 's .
the software used in the attacks was originally designed to help protect websites by testing their penetrability , but when pointed at an unsuspecting site it has the reverse effect .
when used en masse , it is a crude but simple way to create a ddos , or distributed denial of service attack , which floods websites with high level of artificial traffic , making them temporarily slow or more often , unusable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wikileaks founder julian assange , has neither condoned nor condemned the denial of service attacks eddy willems , the spokesperson for tthe european expert group for it security told deutsche welle that there is n't much to the application , which he describes as a " pretty screen " with some buttons to press .
yet the flood module , which crafts packets to send to the target to deal with , can be quite debilitating .
" when you get enough people doing this , " he said , " something has to give .
in this case it 's the targets ' websites . "
the war is not over if anonymous is to be believed , they will keep on bringing these kinds of online attacks as long as there are enough wikileaks supporters on board to bring it about .
as far as they are concerned , it is a matter of principle .
but legal experts are now warning hot-blooded young activists to be aware of where their principle might land them , for to use loic to launch an attack is to misuse it , and that can have very serious consequences .
" users are putting themselves at risk , " willems continued .
" they are not real cyber criminals and they do n't realize that they could be sent to prison for this kind of thing . "
this is the same type of attack that was used against estonia in 2007 , although the estonian one did not involve the use of a software application , but rather through more organized botnets .
estonian government officials suspected that the russian government was somehow involved in attacking estonian financial and political websites , but in the end , only one estonian citizen was punished , who had to pay a relatively small fine .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mastercard was one of the hacktivists ' targets in some cases , finding users is not difficult as was the case of the 19-year-old dutch teenager who was arrested on saturday - as he had neglected to mask his ip address , making it relatively simple for law enforcement to find him .
depending on the protective measures users take , its perpetrators can be easily traced within the space of a day or even just a couple of hours , something which begs the question as to why anonymous has chosen the approach it has .
one suggestion is that the loic application is easy to come by and easy to use , while another is simply that hacktivists are naive .
risky business while the first dutch teenager was released , the younger boy remains in detention over what a spokesman for the dutch prosecutors described as potentially more serious violations .
some observers believe the two boys will be among a handful likely to be singled out and held up as a deterrent to more ddos attacks of this nature .
however , izaz ali , a british attorney specializing in internet law , told deutsche welle that in the case of britain there could be more wide-spread arrests .
" we 're talking here about the computer misuse act , " he said .
" the government will be forcing the police to look into this . "
using loic in a similar fashion may also violate similar statutes in germany and the netherlands .
damage limitation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future for blue-eyed hackers ?
contrary to some reports , ali says it is not illegal to download the software , as long as it is not used for anything other than it was originally intended .
" it is no different from using microsoft word to write something that causes damage to someone else , a computer virus for example . "
damage is the main issue here - if these attacks were simply a case of tit-for-tat that did not affect the possibility to legitimately use affected sites , the lawyer says it would be a different story .
in other words , ali advocates actual old-fashioned street protests to protest their cause in time-honored style .
" do it the old way , " he said , adding that these kinds of modern cyber attacks are harmful to people who might even share the same views .
" they see they are showing people that the leaks are a good thing , but they are going to cause problems for a lot of people , and this is a bad thing . "
reporter : tamsin walker editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- dutch police arrest hacker over alleged cyber attacks hackers have been waging cyber war on the websites of opponents of wikileaks , saying they 're fighting for a " free and open " internet .
dutch police have arrested a teenager accused of taking part in the attacks .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts contrary to oft-stated claims , the wikileaks cables show no huge credibility gap between official us policies and what diplomats write in confidential cables , say experts .
that doesn ’ t hold true for some other countries .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- australia offers support to wikileaks founder , operation payback begins canberra announced it will offer consular support to wikileaks founder julian assange who 's being held in britain .
meanwhile , hackers shut down the web sites of companies that cut business ties with wikileaks .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- feedback what should happen to those who perpetrate denial of service attacks ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.12.2010 stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is another winter of discontent for stuttgart having fired jens keller after only 60 days in charge , stuttgart are rolling the dice again with bruno labbadia , formerly of leverkusen and hamburg .
but can he handle the toughest job in german football ? what do jogi loew , ralf rangnick , matthias sammer , giovanni trapattoni and christian gross have in common ?
if you said that they are all successful coaches who have been fired by stuttgart , you 'd be right .
that might be some small consolation to jens keller , who was axed on sunday after stuttgart suffered an unlucky 2-1 loss to hanover .
that defeat left only moenchengladbach between stuttgart and the very bottom of the table .
" we 're stuck deep in the muck , " stuttgart 's technical director , fredi bobic , said after the hanover disappointment .
" i 've got my thoughts about how we 're going to get out of it . "
bobic declined to elaborate on those mental processes , but stuttgart fans at least have a name and a face to pin to them .
the question is : does bruno labbadia - along with gross and keller , stuttgart 's third coach this season - stand a chance at the hardest club in the league to lead ?
plus and minuses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bruno labbadia is going to have to put his thinking cap on bobic may be counting on what might be called the “ labbadia effect . ”
at each of his previous two teams , big bruno 's charges responded well to his tactical instructions and got off to good starts .
a series of wins such as labbadia engineered at leverkusen and hamburg in 2008 and 2009 respectively would probably be enough for stuttgart , whose only goal right now is to avoid relegation .
that 's not out of the question .
stuttgart , who are currently on 12 points , have been on the losing end of a number of controversial refereeing decisions this season and could argue that their current position in the table does n't accurately reflect their quality .
on the other hand , no one would make the case that this is a good team .
the squad has been unable to compensate for the departures of sami khedira and jens lehmann , veteran star mauro camoranesi has spent more time on his tuchus than on the turf , and chemistry between younger and older players is rumored to be quite poor .
that does n't play to labbadia 's strengths .
at both leverkusen and hamburg , he was criticized for being unapproachable and arrogant , and there were unconfirmed rumors about romantic liaisons , or attempts at such , between him and players ' wives .
whatever the truth may be , both teams suffered drastic downward spirals after their hot starts with him in charge , and he departed after less than a year in charge .
now he 's sitting on a true powder keg , a team whose supporters have in the past besieged their own team bus when they 've been disappointed by results .
labbadia 's first task is to win over those fans , and one thing is clear : it ai n't gonna be easy .
the final step toward relegation ?
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stuttgart fans wish the club had n't sold mario gomez if the new coach had any illusions about what he was getting himself into , he needed only surf briefly on the internet to dispel them .
" why labbadia , " one supporter asked on the online forum of the mass circulation bild newspaper .
" he 'll be gone quicker than he can settle on a starting 11 . "
indeed , the overarching tone of the blogosphere was sarcasm .
" the best management in the league has pulled off another brilliant move and hired a much heralded coach guaranteed to bring stability and continuity to the club , " wrote a user on the football forum of die welt newspaper .
" it looks as if stuttgart have finally committed themselves to getting relegated . "
that comment was typical of many others in blaming management for the team 's current misery .
in particular , supporters are unhappy at the club 's penchant for selling stars .
along with khedira , mario gomez and kevin kuranyi are two of the prominent and popular players stuttgart have flogged off in recent years .
if labbadia does n't pan out quickly , stuttgart could be in the hunt for a dubious record - the greatest number of coaches employed by any one club in a single season .
and if bruno does have to go , the odds are that bobic and others within stuttgart 's management will be going with him .
author : jefferson chase editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hanover hit new high with win over struggling stuttgart hanover continued to surpass expectations , rising to second in the standings with a 2-1 win over beleaguered stuttgart .
now , just third from bottom , stuttgart has decided to dump its coach , jens keller .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- ex-amateur coaches at stuttgart , cologne face uphill battle in jens keller and frank schaefer respectively , stuttgart and cologne hope that an in-house promotion will turn the tide .
but former amateur coaches seldom have long-term success in the bundesliga .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- stuttgart need a reality check as gross takes the fall stuttgart packed off its third coach in three seasons when christian gross was shown the door after a woeful start to the season .
but the club 's position is unlikely to improve until deeper problems are resolved .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- feedback will labbadia succeed at stuttgart ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 dw-tv europe live people and politics we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live living planet growing biofuels , canadian pipelines , a year for bats listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : online vigilantes have taken to their keyboards following the arrest in the netherlands of two teenagers involved in last week 's distributed denial of service attacks against mastercard , lawyers tell young hackers to be aware of the law . on saturday , a second dutch teenager , 19 , was arrested for having been part of a cyberattack that targeted the dutch public prosecutor 's website .
the prosecutor 's site became a target after the dutch prosecutor arrested another dutch teenager , 16 , who had joined an online " hacktivist " attack in the name of wikileaks .
this is just the latest in a series of attacks against perceived enemies of wikileaks largely by a group of its supporters , a shadowy online vigilante group that calls itself anonymous .
" any individual , organization , corporation , and / or government entity which supports freedom of speech and a free internet is an ally of anonymous , " the organization said on its website . " if you work to suppress freedom of expression and a free internet your efforts will be halted . "
the group is more like a semi-controlled herd rather than a traditional heirarchical organization - it does not have clear leadership or direction .
previously , it targeted the church of scientology and the website of the recording industry association of america .
but now that some have been caught for their alleged crimes , it may serve as a legal warning shot to those who feel that they can hide in this hacktivist huddle .
misused technology this time around , in response to the wikileaks case , anonymous followers have been using a computer application known as low orbit ion canon -lrb- loic -rrb- .
using this software , these hacktivists , managed to temporarily disable a number of major financial companý websites , including mastercard 's .
the software used in the attacks was originally designed to help protect websites by testing their penetrability , but when pointed at an unsuspecting site it has the reverse effect .
when used en masse , it is a crude but simple way to create a ddos , or distributed denial of service attack , which floods websites with high level of artificial traffic , making them temporarily slow or more often , unusable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wikileaks founder julian assange , has neither condoned nor condemned the denial of service attacks eddy willems , the spokesperson for tthe european expert group for it security told deutsche welle that there is n't much to the application , which he describes as a " pretty screen " with some buttons to press .
yet the flood module , which crafts packets to send to the target to deal with , can be quite debilitating .
" when you get enough people doing this , " he said , " something has to give .
in this case it 's the targets ' websites . "
the war is not over if anonymous is to be believed , they will keep on bringing these kinds of online attacks as long as there are enough wikileaks supporters on board to bring it about .
as far as they are concerned , it is a matter of principle .
but legal experts are now warning hot-blooded young activists to be aware of where their principle might land them , for to use loic to launch an attack is to misuse it , and that can have very serious consequences .
" users are putting themselves at risk , " willems continued .
" they are not real cyber criminals and they do n't realize that they could be sent to prison for this kind of thing . "
this is the same type of attack that was used against estonia in 2007 , although the estonian one did not involve the use of a software application , but rather through more organized botnets .
estonian government officials suspected that the russian government was somehow involved in attacking estonian financial and political websites , but in the end , only one estonian citizen was punished , who had to pay a relatively small fine .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mastercard was one of the hacktivists ' targets in some cases , finding users is not difficult as was the case of the 19-year-old dutch teenager who was arrested on saturday - as he had neglected to mask his ip address , making it relatively simple for law enforcement to find him .
depending on the protective measures users take , its perpetrators can be easily traced within the space of a day or even just a couple of hours , something which begs the question as to why anonymous has chosen the approach it has .
one suggestion is that the loic application is easy to come by and easy to use , while another is simply that hacktivists are naive .
risky business while the first dutch teenager was released , the younger boy remains in detention over what a spokesman for the dutch prosecutors described as potentially more serious violations .
some observers believe the two boys will be among a handful likely to be singled out and held up as a deterrent to more ddos attacks of this nature .
however , izaz ali , a british attorney specializing in internet law , told deutsche welle that in the case of britain there could be more wide-spread arrests .
" we 're talking here about the computer misuse act , " he said .
" the government will be forcing the police to look into this . "
using loic in a similar fashion may also violate similar statutes in germany and the netherlands .
damage limitation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future for blue-eyed hackers ?
contrary to some reports , ali says it is not illegal to download the software , as long as it is not used for anything other than it was originally intended .
" it is no different from using microsoft word to write something that causes damage to someone else , a computer virus for example . "
damage is the main issue here - if these attacks were simply a case of tit-for-tat that did not affect the possibility to legitimately use affected sites , the lawyer says it would be a different story .
in other words , ali advocates actual old-fashioned street protests to protest their cause in time-honored style .
" do it the old way , " he said , adding that these kinds of modern cyber attacks are harmful to people who might even share the same views .
" they see they are showing people that the leaks are a good thing , but they are going to cause problems for a lot of people , and this is a bad thing . "
reporter : tamsin walker editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- dutch police arrest hacker over alleged cyber attacks hackers have been waging cyber war on the websites of opponents of wikileaks , saying they 're fighting for a " free and open " internet .
dutch police have arrested a teenager accused of taking part in the attacks .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts contrary to oft-stated claims , the wikileaks cables show no huge credibility gap between official us policies and what diplomats write in confidential cables , say experts .
that doesn ’ t hold true for some other countries .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- australia offers support to wikileaks founder , operation payback begins canberra announced it will offer consular support to wikileaks founder julian assange who 's being held in britain .
meanwhile , hackers shut down the web sites of companies that cut business ties with wikileaks .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.12.2010 stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is another winter of discontent for stuttgart having fired jens keller after only 60 days in charge , stuttgart are rolling the dice again with bruno labbadia , formerly of leverkusen and hamburg .
but can he handle the toughest job in german football ? what do jogi loew , ralf rangnick , matthias sammer , giovanni trapattoni and christian gross have in common ?
if you said that they are all successful coaches who have been fired by stuttgart , you 'd be right .
that might be some small consolation to jens keller , who was axed on sunday after stuttgart suffered an unlucky 2-1 loss to hanover .
that defeat left only moenchengladbach between stuttgart and the very bottom of the table .
" we 're stuck deep in the muck , " stuttgart 's technical director , fredi bobic , said after the hanover disappointment .
" i 've got my thoughts about how we 're going to get out of it . "
bobic declined to elaborate on those mental processes , but stuttgart fans at least have a name and a face to pin to them .
the question is : does bruno labbadia - along with gross and keller , stuttgart 's third coach this season - stand a chance at the hardest club in the league to lead ?
plus and minuses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bruno labbadia is going to have to put his thinking cap on bobic may be counting on what might be called the “ labbadia effect . ”
at each of his previous two teams , big bruno 's charges responded well to his tactical instructions and got off to good starts .
a series of wins such as labbadia engineered at leverkusen and hamburg in 2008 and 2009 respectively would probably be enough for stuttgart , whose only goal right now is to avoid relegation .
that 's not out of the question .
stuttgart , who are currently on 12 points , have been on the losing end of a number of controversial refereeing decisions this season and could argue that their current position in the table does n't accurately reflect their quality .
on the other hand , no one would make the case that this is a good team .
the squad has been unable to compensate for the departures of sami khedira and jens lehmann , veteran star mauro camoranesi has spent more time on his tuchus than on the turf , and chemistry between younger and older players is rumored to be quite poor .
that does n't play to labbadia 's strengths .
at both leverkusen and hamburg , he was criticized for being unapproachable and arrogant , and there were unconfirmed rumors about romantic liaisons , or attempts at such , between him and players ' wives .
whatever the truth may be , both teams suffered drastic downward spirals after their hot starts with him in charge , and he departed after less than a year in charge .
now he 's sitting on a true powder keg , a team whose supporters have in the past besieged their own team bus when they 've been disappointed by results .
labbadia 's first task is to win over those fans , and one thing is clear : it ai n't gonna be easy .
the final step toward relegation ?
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stuttgart fans wish the club had n't sold mario gomez if the new coach had any illusions about what he was getting himself into , he needed only surf briefly on the internet to dispel them .
" why labbadia , " one supporter asked on the online forum of the mass circulation bild newspaper .
" he 'll be gone quicker than he can settle on a starting 11 . "
indeed , the overarching tone of the blogosphere was sarcasm .
" the best management in the league has pulled off another brilliant move and hired a much heralded coach guaranteed to bring stability and continuity to the club , " wrote a user on the football forum of die welt newspaper .
" it looks as if stuttgart have finally committed themselves to getting relegated . "
that comment was typical of many others in blaming management for the team 's current misery .
in particular , supporters are unhappy at the club 's penchant for selling stars .
along with khedira , mario gomez and kevin kuranyi are two of the prominent and popular players stuttgart have flogged off in recent years .
if labbadia does n't pan out quickly , stuttgart could be in the hunt for a dubious record - the greatest number of coaches employed by any one club in a single season .
and if bruno does have to go , the odds are that bobic and others within stuttgart 's management will be going with him .
author : jefferson chase editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hanover hit new high with win over struggling stuttgart hanover continued to surpass expectations , rising to second in the standings with a 2-1 win over beleaguered stuttgart .
now , just third from bottom , stuttgart has decided to dump its coach , jens keller .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- ex-amateur coaches at stuttgart , cologne face uphill battle in jens keller and frank schaefer respectively , stuttgart and cologne hope that an in-house promotion will turn the tide .
but former amateur coaches seldom have long-term success in the bundesliga .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- stuttgart need a reality check as gross takes the fall stuttgart packed off its third coach in three seasons when christian gross was shown the door after a woeful start to the season .
but the club 's position is unlikely to improve until deeper problems are resolved .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- 9797 dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
women 's world cup live coverage !
follow @ dw _ sports on twitter for germany 's next match against france : july 5 , 18:30 utc dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio art women 's football - a source of inspiration watch the video video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
all i want for christmas is ... -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de christmas -pipe- 13.12.2010 all i want for christmas is ... großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children have left instructions for christmas gift-givers for over a century toothpaste may seem like an unusual item on a christmas wish list - but over a century ago , it was n't so strange .
an exhibition in dortmund unveils the touching and sometimes comical history of holiday wish lists . in some countries , christmas presents are exchanged on the morning of december 25 , while most europeans give gifts on the evening of the 24th .
no matter when they 're unwrapped , it 's hard to imagine christmas without presents . the tradition , however , is relatively new .
it was n't until the end of the 19th century that gift-giving was associated with christmas in germany .
before that , st. nicholas brought presents to well-behaved children on december 6 . with the advent of gifts , it was only inevitable that children would help the givers - real and imagined - out with wish lists . " the development of the christmas gift-giving tradition mainly had to do with the fact that more presents and toys were available as a result of industrialization , " historian isolde parussel told deutsche welle . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a christmas gift table may have looked like this in the 19th century of course , not everyone could afford the new toys , but that did n't keep children from writing out their wishes . old toys made just like new parussel is behind the exhibition " … bring us many nice things , " which is currently on show at the museum of art and cultural history in the western german city of dortmund .
over 100 holiday wish lists are on display , along with decorative gift tables , toys and festive christmas trees from the past century . most of the items were collected from private households following a request published in german newspapers . some of the wish lists are addressed to st. nicholas or santa claus , but many were written to the ' christkind ' - a sprite-like child , usually depicted with blond hair and angelic wings . in one list from 1899 , a young girl hoped for " a dress for -lsb- my doll -rsb- fraenzchen , a set of colored pencils , a sailor 's hat for me " but also " calling cards and a tube of calodont tooth paste . "
at the end of the 19th century , tooth paste in tubes was extremely modern - something extraordinary even for a little girl . as the end of the girl 's letter reveals , gifts were n't necessarily expected to be new .
" and then , dear christkind , -lsb- my dolls -rsb- siegfried and dori need to be taken to the hospital .
dori 's hair is growing very sparsely on her head and her limbs are very droopy .
both of these things need to be fixed , " wrote the girl . despite having to organize presents for so many children , the christkind occasionally found time to write back .
one such letter - composed on a typewriter and dated christmas eve , 1911 - is included in the exhibition ; parussel suspects , of course , that it was written by the parents .
" the angels say that you and -lsb- your sister -rsb- staenzerl were n't very good doll mothers this year , " read the letter : " under these circumstances , entrusting you with a real baby seems to be too much of a responsibility . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : isolde parussel curated the dortmund exhibition apparently , the girls had wished for a sibling - a gift their parents apparently were n't yet willing to provide . some things do n't change the letters and lists offer insights into the everyday lives of various generations .
children from the post-world war ii generation wanted nothing more than a warm hat or a notebook for school .
one short generation later , one girl asked for a knee-length skirt , according to the trend of the time . the most recent wish list in the collection is from 2008 .
jascha from dortmund had cut out pictures from catalogues - complete with price tags - to illustrate his list , which mainly consisted of electronics . jascha 's wishes are expensive , but , when taking the standard of living into account , they 're not necessarily more valuable than the things children asked for a century ago , said parussel . " you ca n't necessarily say that this child is just focused on consumption , " she said .
he put just as much effort into his wish list , writing it neatly and decorating it with colored pencils . " author : sola huelsewig -lrb- kjb -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de toys r ' scarce in german stores toy makers and retailers in germany could n't be happier : christmas shoppers appear to have a near insatiable appetite for toys .
products from traditional european toymakers like lego and playmobil are in high demand .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- racism controversy dampens holland 's sinterklaas tradition children across europe eagerly await the arrival of st. nicholas on december 6 .
but in holland , the tradition has racist implications that the dutch are n't quite willing to give up .
-lrb- 05.12.2010 -rrb- ' dear christkind ' : a german post office answers christmas letters in the small town of engelskirchen , thousands of letters from around the world arrive at a seasonal christmas post office , all addressed to one person .
for over 20 years , postal workers have written back .
-lrb- 24.12.2009 -rrb- feedback do you have a special christmas tradition in your family ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski clip no. 9 - the bonny situation subscribe on itunes get the rss feed visit germany dw-tv tells you the top things to visit in this fun rhineland city .
" recommended " as video on demand download here -lrb- mp4 -rrb- cologne cologne carnival the claudius therme ' suenner im walfisch ' brewery -lrb- german -rrb- word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
all i want for christmas is ... -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de christmas -pipe- 13.12.2010 all i want for christmas is ... großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children have left instructions for christmas gift-givers for over a century toothpaste may seem like an unusual item on a christmas wish list - but over a century ago , it was n't so strange .
an exhibition in dortmund unveils the touching and sometimes comical history of holiday wish lists . in some countries , christmas presents are exchanged on the morning of december 25 , while most europeans give gifts on the evening of the 24th .
no matter when they 're unwrapped , it 's hard to imagine christmas without presents . the tradition , however , is relatively new .
it was n't until the end of the 19th century that gift-giving was associated with christmas in germany .
before that , st. nicholas brought presents to well-behaved children on december 6 . with the advent of gifts , it was only inevitable that children would help the givers - real and imagined - out with wish lists . " the development of the christmas gift-giving tradition mainly had to do with the fact that more presents and toys were available as a result of industrialization , " historian isolde parussel told deutsche welle . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a christmas gift table may have looked like this in the 19th century of course , not everyone could afford the new toys , but that did n't keep children from writing out their wishes . old toys made just like new parussel is behind the exhibition " … bring us many nice things , " which is currently on show at the museum of art and cultural history in the western german city of dortmund .
over 100 holiday wish lists are on display , along with decorative gift tables , toys and festive christmas trees from the past century . most of the items were collected from private households following a request published in german newspapers . some of the wish lists are addressed to st. nicholas or santa claus , but many were written to the ' christkind ' - a sprite-like child , usually depicted with blond hair and angelic wings . in one list from 1899 , a young girl hoped for " a dress for -lsb- my doll -rsb- fraenzchen , a set of colored pencils , a sailor 's hat for me " but also " calling cards and a tube of calodont tooth paste . "
at the end of the 19th century , tooth paste in tubes was extremely modern - something extraordinary even for a little girl . as the end of the girl 's letter reveals , gifts were n't necessarily expected to be new .
" and then , dear christkind , -lsb- my dolls -rsb- siegfried and dori need to be taken to the hospital .
dori 's hair is growing very sparsely on her head and her limbs are very droopy .
both of these things need to be fixed , " wrote the girl . despite having to organize presents for so many children , the christkind occasionally found time to write back .
one such letter - composed on a typewriter and dated christmas eve , 1911 - is included in the exhibition ; parussel suspects , of course , that it was written by the parents .
" the angels say that you and -lsb- your sister -rsb- staenzerl were n't very good doll mothers this year , " read the letter : " under these circumstances , entrusting you with a real baby seems to be too much of a responsibility . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : isolde parussel curated the dortmund exhibition apparently , the girls had wished for a sibling - a gift their parents apparently were n't yet willing to provide . some things do n't change the letters and lists offer insights into the everyday lives of various generations .
children from the post-world war ii generation wanted nothing more than a warm hat or a notebook for school .
one short generation later , one girl asked for a knee-length skirt , according to the trend of the time . the most recent wish list in the collection is from 2008 .
jascha from dortmund had cut out pictures from catalogues - complete with price tags - to illustrate his list , which mainly consisted of electronics . jascha 's wishes are expensive , but , when taking the standard of living into account , they 're not necessarily more valuable than the things children asked for a century ago , said parussel . " you ca n't necessarily say that this child is just focused on consumption , " she said .
he put just as much effort into his wish list , writing it neatly and decorating it with colored pencils . " author : sola huelsewig -lrb- kjb -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de toys r ' scarce in german stores toy makers and retailers in germany could n't be happier : christmas shoppers appear to have a near insatiable appetite for toys .
products from traditional european toymakers like lego and playmobil are in high demand .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- racism controversy dampens holland 's sinterklaas tradition children across europe eagerly await the arrival of st. nicholas on december 6 .
but in holland , the tradition has racist implications that the dutch are n't quite willing to give up .
-lrb- 05.12.2010 -rrb- ' dear christkind ' : a german post office answers christmas letters in the small town of engelskirchen , thousands of letters from around the world arrive at a seasonal christmas post office , all addressed to one person .
for over 20 years , postal workers have written back .
-lrb- 24.12.2009 -rrb- 9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 04.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press opinion : wikileaks ' latest release is a diplomatic waterloo africa -pipe- 13.12.2010 wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell gained information on all aspects of nigeria 's oil business the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria . leaked us diplomatic cables from last year , carried by a number of international newspapers and magazines , show that royal dutch shell - among the major oil producers in nigeria - have infiltrated key nigerian ministries and have been using links to us officials to gain information on rival oil companies in the country , and the movements and objectives of militants in the niger delta region .
shell 's level of penetration into the governmental structure of nigeria - one of the world 's largest oil exporters - have given the company access to politicians and decision-makers at the highest level , providing it with insider knowledge of all movements and negotiations within those ministries .
according to dr. heinz jockers , a nigeria expert and a member of the eu election observation mission to nigeria , shell has personnel in the finance , interior , national planning , defense , environment , energy and foreign affairs ministries as well as influence over a number of presidential advisers , parliamentarians , governors , and high-ranked tribal rulers .
high level infiltration in major ministeries and oil-producing states " shell operatives - although they are unofficially employed by the company - have infiltrated the majority of the most important ministries in the nigerian government , " jockers told deutsche welle .
" they will of course also have their people in the ministries of the main oil-producing states . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell used nigerian sources to help secure its interests jockers said that the main aim of the shell operatives would be to gain information on everything which could in one way or the other affect the company 's business .
" areas of interest for these people would be the position of other competitors , be it companies or countries ; their offers regarding oil deals in nigeria , the pricing scale for oil in the country , and the level of governmental support for security , " he said .
the leaked cables show that shell had obtained information that nigeria had invited bids for oil concessions from china and was concerned at the possibility of increased competition from the people 's republic .
they also show that shell executives requested confirmation from us officials on russian gas giant gazprom 's interest in nigeria after information was obtained from ministerial channels .
jockers added that the practice of infiltration was so widespread that it is highly likely that other large companies have embedded personnel in governmental offices as this was the only way that advantages in business could be gained in nigeria .
" these could include : julius berger , chevron , hochtief , siemens , peugeot , haliburton , and mercedes , " he said .
" you have to remember : nigeria is a chaotic and highly corrupt country .
to do business there , you have to play the game . "
shell contacted us officials over delta militant threat bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell wanted us help with getting information on militants ann pickard , shell 's top executive in nigeria , was also revealed to have spoken to us officials in 2008 about the threat of militants in the niger delta which had , at its peak in 2006 , shut down a quarter of nigeria 's oil output .
an amnesty in 2009 ended the acts of sabotage being carried out on vulnerable pipelines and platforms , such as shell 's soku gas facility which had been the target of militant rocket attacks at the height of the so-called oil war .
" shell had been the main target of attacks by militants since the early 1990s , " heinrich bergstresser , a nigeria expert at the german institute of global and area studies -lrb- giga -rrb- in hamburg , told deutsche welle .
" the sabotages and attacks on shell 's installations , among others , were and are executed not just by militants but also orchestrated by complicit agents within the oil companies .
they benefit from the attacks because these people are very often also in charge of managing the payment of compensation which offers the opportunity to keep certain amounts of the payment for themselves . "
the cable dispatches from 2008 showed that shell 's pickard had contacted the us consulate in lagos with an offer to share " intelligence " on militant activity in exchange for information on a shipment of surface-to-air missiles which had allegedly been destined for nigerian militant groups in the delta region .
cables hint at shell 's involvement with local godfathers the cables describe how pickard was also unconvinced that a certain governor in the delta region " lacked the connections among rivers state militant leaders to successfully coopt them as the governors in delta and bayelsa states have done with militants in their states , " and that she believed the clash between the military and militants was " a proxy war for ongoing disputes " between rival governors .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : playing both sides in the delta struggle is a dangerous game this section of the cable transcripts hints at the possibility that shell has been attempting to use its influence to control local leaders , a comlicated and dangerous practice according to heinrich bergstresser .
" shell is playing with fire if it has or had any connection with the governors and militants , " he said .
" on the one hand , the oil companies can not control the governors but on the other hand they can try to persuade them to act in favor of the companies and in their own interest .
i am sure that they are paying certain amounts to the governors but that does not guarantee anything . "
bergstresser added that very often the oil companies find themselves caught between a rock and a hard place .
" the militias have emancipated themselves from their political godfathers and have started their own business of attacks and kidnappings so the oil companies find themselves sandwiched between profit-making , being threatened by militias , and keeping very close relationships with the federal government . "
author : nick amies editor : rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de illegal arms shipments to nigeria raise stakes ahead of 2011 elections general elections in nigeria are still several months away , but tensions are rising with memories still fresh of the 2007 poll which saw widespread allegations of corruption , voter fraud and violence .
-lrb- 01.12.2010 -rrb- biafra war anniversary highlights nigeria ’ s uncertain future " biafra " was the taunt german children used for skinny kids in the late 60s - the term was synonymous with starvation .
it is now 40 years since the end of the biafra war , and nigeria 's future still hangs in the balance .
-lrb- 15.01.2010 -rrb- shell settles lawsuit over killing of nigerian activists european oil giant royal dutch shell has agreed to pay $ 15.5 million -lrb- 11.2 million euros -rrb- to the families of six nigerian activists executed in 1995 but has refused to accept any liability for the violence .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- feedback in your opinion , has shell done anything wrong by gaining influence in nigerian government ministeries ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
violence in nigeria nigeria has been rocked once again by ethnic clashes between christians and muslims .
watch the video the road ahead the nato exit strategy aims to hand security to afghan forces , however that is a long way off .
watch the video focus wikileaks read our dw-world focus on the latest wikileaks revelations and their impact around the globe .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan new web site check out deutsche welle 's new asia page in english .
dw asia online latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press opinion : wikileaks ' latest release is a diplomatic waterloo africa -pipe- 13.12.2010 wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell gained information on all aspects of nigeria 's oil business the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria . leaked us diplomatic cables from last year , carried by a number of international newspapers and magazines , show that royal dutch shell - among the major oil producers in nigeria - have infiltrated key nigerian ministries and have been using links to us officials to gain information on rival oil companies in the country , and the movements and objectives of militants in the niger delta region .
shell 's level of penetration into the governmental structure of nigeria - one of the world 's largest oil exporters - have given the company access to politicians and decision-makers at the highest level , providing it with insider knowledge of all movements and negotiations within those ministries .
according to dr. heinz jockers , a nigeria expert and a member of the eu election observation mission to nigeria , shell has personnel in the finance , interior , national planning , defense , environment , energy and foreign affairs ministries as well as influence over a number of presidential advisers , parliamentarians , governors , and high-ranked tribal rulers .
high level infiltration in major ministeries and oil-producing states " shell operatives - although they are unofficially employed by the company - have infiltrated the majority of the most important ministries in the nigerian government , " jockers told deutsche welle .
" they will of course also have their people in the ministries of the main oil-producing states . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell used nigerian sources to help secure its interests jockers said that the main aim of the shell operatives would be to gain information on everything which could in one way or the other affect the company 's business .
" areas of interest for these people would be the position of other competitors , be it companies or countries ; their offers regarding oil deals in nigeria , the pricing scale for oil in the country , and the level of governmental support for security , " he said .
the leaked cables show that shell had obtained information that nigeria had invited bids for oil concessions from china and was concerned at the possibility of increased competition from the people 's republic .
they also show that shell executives requested confirmation from us officials on russian gas giant gazprom 's interest in nigeria after information was obtained from ministerial channels .
jockers added that the practice of infiltration was so widespread that it is highly likely that other large companies have embedded personnel in governmental offices as this was the only way that advantages in business could be gained in nigeria .
" these could include : julius berger , chevron , hochtief , siemens , peugeot , haliburton , and mercedes , " he said .
" you have to remember : nigeria is a chaotic and highly corrupt country .
to do business there , you have to play the game . "
shell contacted us officials over delta militant threat bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell wanted us help with getting information on militants ann pickard , shell 's top executive in nigeria , was also revealed to have spoken to us officials in 2008 about the threat of militants in the niger delta which had , at its peak in 2006 , shut down a quarter of nigeria 's oil output .
an amnesty in 2009 ended the acts of sabotage being carried out on vulnerable pipelines and platforms , such as shell 's soku gas facility which had been the target of militant rocket attacks at the height of the so-called oil war .
" shell had been the main target of attacks by militants since the early 1990s , " heinrich bergstresser , a nigeria expert at the german institute of global and area studies -lrb- giga -rrb- in hamburg , told deutsche welle .
" the sabotages and attacks on shell 's installations , among others , were and are executed not just by militants but also orchestrated by complicit agents within the oil companies .
they benefit from the attacks because these people are very often also in charge of managing the payment of compensation which offers the opportunity to keep certain amounts of the payment for themselves . "
the cable dispatches from 2008 showed that shell 's pickard had contacted the us consulate in lagos with an offer to share " intelligence " on militant activity in exchange for information on a shipment of surface-to-air missiles which had allegedly been destined for nigerian militant groups in the delta region .
cables hint at shell 's involvement with local godfathers the cables describe how pickard was also unconvinced that a certain governor in the delta region " lacked the connections among rivers state militant leaders to successfully coopt them as the governors in delta and bayelsa states have done with militants in their states , " and that she believed the clash between the military and militants was " a proxy war for ongoing disputes " between rival governors .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : playing both sides in the delta struggle is a dangerous game this section of the cable transcripts hints at the possibility that shell has been attempting to use its influence to control local leaders , a comlicated and dangerous practice according to heinrich bergstresser .
" shell is playing with fire if it has or had any connection with the governors and militants , " he said .
" on the one hand , the oil companies can not control the governors but on the other hand they can try to persuade them to act in favor of the companies and in their own interest .
i am sure that they are paying certain amounts to the governors but that does not guarantee anything . "
bergstresser added that very often the oil companies find themselves caught between a rock and a hard place .
" the militias have emancipated themselves from their political godfathers and have started their own business of attacks and kidnappings so the oil companies find themselves sandwiched between profit-making , being threatened by militias , and keeping very close relationships with the federal government . "
author : nick amies editor : rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de illegal arms shipments to nigeria raise stakes ahead of 2011 elections general elections in nigeria are still several months away , but tensions are rising with memories still fresh of the 2007 poll which saw widespread allegations of corruption , voter fraud and violence .
-lrb- 01.12.2010 -rrb- biafra war anniversary highlights nigeria ’ s uncertain future " biafra " was the taunt german children used for skinny kids in the late 60s - the term was synonymous with starvation .
it is now 40 years since the end of the biafra war , and nigeria 's future still hangs in the balance .
-lrb- 15.01.2010 -rrb- shell settles lawsuit over killing of nigerian activists european oil giant royal dutch shell has agreed to pay $ 15.5 million -lrb- 11.2 million euros -rrb- to the families of six nigerian activists executed in 1995 but has refused to accept any liability for the violence .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series a german musician brings change with song and crowd funding .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 13.12.2010 oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eurozone states have to stop spending money they do n't have and start to cut debt the oecd urged eurozone states to start cutting down their debt loads and correct economic imbalances as soon as possible .
its chief economist gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds , calling them a " good idea " . the organization for economic co-operation and development -lrb- oecd -rrb- warned the 16 eurozone member states on monday that they need to start cutting their heavy debt loads and adopt tough measures to correct economic imbalances . the oecd also urged them to install a permanent crisis resolution mechanism which would force nations to carry out reforms in order to receive aid .
in its latest survey , the oecd predicted the eurozone 's economy would grow by 1.7 percent this year before accelerating to 2 percent in 2011 .
and although the oecd said the eurozone enjoyed a " gradual and sustained recovery " from last year 's steep recession , it also predicted that the pace of recovery would likely be muted .
eurozone states should begin to cut debts by 2011 the latest " fiscal consolidation is the immediate priority to stabilize the public finances and should begin by 2011 at the latest in all countries , " the oecd said in a statement .
oecd chief economist pier carlo padoan acknowledged that it took economists like him too long to understand the underlying reasons for the euro crisis .
" we economists have to plead guilty to that because we now discovered that while looking at -lrb- the -rrb- fiscal -lrb- situation -rrb- that needs to be looked at , we neglected other elements that now we know prove to be extremely important , " he said .
the crisis was caused by an economic imbalance , which had always existed in europe , he added .
the common currency only served to exacerbate that fact .
according to daniel gros , head of the center for european policy studies , one has to go back about 20 years to find the root of the current crisis .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms " will boost growth , said padoan " the problems we have been experiencing at the european periphery go back to german reunification .
at that time , germany experienced a construction and consumption boom which led to a rise in interest rates , while the rest of europe was moving in the opposite direction , " he said .
" beginning in 1995 , it was germany that had to watch its finances while other nations , thanks to the global credit boom , were spending more freely .
now the tables are turning again . "
the massive public debt of practically all of the oecd 's member states , is one of the main problems , said chief economist padoan .
" the first , best solution for countries is strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms to boost growth .
we think this is the way forward . "
financial markets may not grant greece enough time to implement reforms however , eurozone states appear to be moving in the right direction .
" the reforms we are currently witnessing in greece and elsewhere will take effect at some point , " said gros .
" the question we 're asking right now is whether the financial markets will give those countries the time they need to implement the reforms .
germany had enough time .
greece may possibly not . "
this is a scenario no one wants to imagine .
oecd chief economist padoan gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds .
" imagining that there is a european dimension to financial markets , including bond markets , is a good idea , " he said .
author : christoph hasselbach -lrb- db / sst / dpa / afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland bailout reignites fears about the future of the euro germany has seen a number of its own currencies come and go : the deutschmark , the reichsmark and , before that , the mark .
now some analysts are grumbling that the euro may be on its way out too .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- debt crisis exposes the euro 's flaws but divorce is not an option like marriage partners , eurozone nations fight about money .
germany grumbles about paying for the profligacy of others , but pays , since sticking together is the lesser of evils , says die zeit 's josef joffe .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- eurogroup finance ministers agree details of euro safety net eurozone finance ministers have signed off on a 500-billion-euro safety fund to stave off future crises within the single currency zone .
the announcement comes amid concerns over the strength and stability of the euro .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- feedback what should germany do in order to cut its public debt ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle quo vadis bosnia ?
betancourt book sparks controversy in france technology overtakes prague 's taxi drivers europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 13.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 13.12.2010 oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eurozone states have to stop spending money they do n't have and start to cut debt the oecd urged eurozone states to start cutting down their debt loads and correct economic imbalances as soon as possible .
its chief economist gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds , calling them a " good idea " . the organization for economic co-operation and development -lrb- oecd -rrb- warned the 16 eurozone member states on monday that they need to start cutting their heavy debt loads and adopt tough measures to correct economic imbalances . the oecd also urged them to install a permanent crisis resolution mechanism which would force nations to carry out reforms in order to receive aid .
in its latest survey , the oecd predicted the eurozone 's economy would grow by 1.7 percent this year before accelerating to 2 percent in 2011 .
and although the oecd said the eurozone enjoyed a " gradual and sustained recovery " from last year 's steep recession , it also predicted that the pace of recovery would likely be muted .
eurozone states should begin to cut debts by 2011 the latest " fiscal consolidation is the immediate priority to stabilize the public finances and should begin by 2011 at the latest in all countries , " the oecd said in a statement .
oecd chief economist pier carlo padoan acknowledged that it took economists like him too long to understand the underlying reasons for the euro crisis .
" we economists have to plead guilty to that because we now discovered that while looking at -lrb- the -rrb- fiscal -lrb- situation -rrb- that needs to be looked at , we neglected other elements that now we know prove to be extremely important , " he said .
the crisis was caused by an economic imbalance , which had always existed in europe , he added .
the common currency only served to exacerbate that fact .
according to daniel gros , head of the center for european policy studies , one has to go back about 20 years to find the root of the current crisis .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms " will boost growth , said padoan " the problems we have been experiencing at the european periphery go back to german reunification .
at that time , germany experienced a construction and consumption boom which led to a rise in interest rates , while the rest of europe was moving in the opposite direction , " he said .
" beginning in 1995 , it was germany that had to watch its finances while other nations , thanks to the global credit boom , were spending more freely .
now the tables are turning again . "
the massive public debt of practically all of the oecd 's member states , is one of the main problems , said chief economist padoan .
" the first , best solution for countries is strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms to boost growth .
we think this is the way forward . "
financial markets may not grant greece enough time to implement reforms however , eurozone states appear to be moving in the right direction .
" the reforms we are currently witnessing in greece and elsewhere will take effect at some point , " said gros .
" the question we 're asking right now is whether the financial markets will give those countries the time they need to implement the reforms .
germany had enough time .
greece may possibly not . "
this is a scenario no one wants to imagine .
oecd chief economist padoan gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds .
" imagining that there is a european dimension to financial markets , including bond markets , is a good idea , " he said .
author : christoph hasselbach -lrb- db / sst / dpa / afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland bailout reignites fears about the future of the euro germany has seen a number of its own currencies come and go : the deutschmark , the reichsmark and , before that , the mark .
now some analysts are grumbling that the euro may be on its way out too .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- debt crisis exposes the euro 's flaws but divorce is not an option like marriage partners , eurozone nations fight about money .
germany grumbles about paying for the profligacy of others , but pays , since sticking together is the lesser of evils , says die zeit 's josef joffe .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- eurogroup finance ministers agree details of euro safety net eurozone finance ministers have signed off on a 500-billion-euro safety fund to stave off future crises within the single currency zone .
the announcement comes amid concerns over the strength and stability of the euro .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit wirtschaft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live spectrum more efficient nuclear power , qr code coins , a chemicals in space and the future of nasa 's employees listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
unemployment facing high unemployment at home , many young spaniards are trying their luck in germany .
watch the video world war ii nazi leader adolf hitler 's austrian birthplace kicks him off its list of honorary citizens .
listen to the audio tour de danger two accidents involving media vehicles has some wondering if the tour de france is too dangerous .
listen to the audio transport with fuel prices at record highs , germans head to luxembourg to take advantage of low fuel tax .
listen to the audio inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stress tests doubted as ireland suffers from bank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.08.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.12.2010 stress tests doubted as ireland suffers from bank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : are the eu 's bank stress tests accurate enough ?
ireland is floundering under the expense of its bank bailout , but irish banks passed the eu-wide stress tests in july .
some now dismiss the tests as nothing more than a ' placebo ' for the market . when the eu-wide bank stress test results were made public in july , skepticism soon followed .
after all , just seven of 91 banks failed , leading some to believe the tests had been too easy .
none of ireland 's banks failed .
yet the country floundered under the sheer expense of bailing out and reforming its financial system .
in private , the chief financial officer of a european bank recently referred to the stress tests conducted over the past year as nothing more than a " placebo for the market . "
gerhard hofmann , a board member of the national association of german cooperative banks -lrb- bvr -rrb- , is skeptical about the accuracy of the tests .
he is n't aware of any cases in which they " actually had a high level of revelatory value , or a high level of predictive power in regards to future problem areas , " he told deutsche welle .
" what is put under stress today is most likely not tomorrow 's problem . "
first public results bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german financial regulator bafin carried out stress tests in germany according to benjamin fischer , a spokesman for german financial regulator bafin , three german banks were subjected to the first european union-wide stress tests in 2009 .
those results were not published .
the number then jumped to 15 in 2010 , although one bank was the subsidiary of an italian bank and was tested by that country 's financial regulator .
the results of these tests were published .
" it was a novelty that the results were made public , " fischer told deutsche welle .
" naturally , it made working on the stress tests more difficult because the attention was significantly more present . "
stress tests , according to fischer , are hypothetical instruments normally used in the banking industry .
" banks and regulators use stress tests as a kind of early-warning system to identify possible weaknesses ahead of time , " he said .
each eu nation carried out a test prescribed by the committee of european banking supervisors -lrb- cebs -rrb- .
while another stress test is likely in 2011 , it remains to be seen whether or not results will be made public .
a spokesman for cebs declined to comment .
according to the central bank of ireland , the irish stress tests were carried out with higher loan loss rates being applied than actually required by cebs .
still , ireland 's finances buckled and its debt rating plummeted as the country scrambled to save banks teetering on the edge of collapse .
ireland will now receive a bailout from the eu and the international monetary fund worth 85 billion euros -lrb- $ 112 billion -rrb- .
banks tested at status quo michael schroeder , an economist with the centre for european economic research in mannheim , said he does n't believe the irish crisis invalidates the cebs stress tests .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : patrick honohan 's central bank of ireland carried out the stress tests in ireland " the banks were tested at status quo ... and at that point they had already passed on some of their problems to the government , " he told deutsche welle .
each individual bank was placed under artificial stress , schroeder says , but a different picture , he argues , would likely emerge if the pressure were applied system-wide .
" the problem with the financial crisis was that many banks had similar portfolios and reacted similarly – in that they wanted to get rid of their portfolios , " he said .
" i do n't believe the tests depicted the crisis situation with complete accuracy . "
schroeder advocates a method of risk analysis called covar -lrb- conditional value at risk -rrb- , which is capable of simulating " how the portfolio of a bank reacts when there is a shock in all other banks . "
in other words , covar can be used to gain insight into chain reactions throughout a financial system .
it is gaining support throughout the financial world , according to schroeder .
in general , he believes , transparency in stress testing is a worthy objective .
" there was a lot of discussion about whether to publicize the results , " schroeder said .
" if the information is reliable and accurately represents specific problems then , yes , i would publicize it .
those who are active in the market and deal in stocks and investment on a large scale should know about it . "
market supplanted by european central bank one possible pitfall is that stress testing can backfire if publicized results turn out to be inaccurate .
bankers are currently fretting over whether ireland and other troubled eu countries will be able to fully repay government bonds .
to play it safe , they often turn to the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to deposit their assets and secure lines of credit .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future of the euro is linked with that of ireland fidel helmer of the hauck & aufhauser bank says industry-wide mistrust affects all players .
banks lend less among themselves , and the supply and demand for money is routed over the ecb instead of the open market .
" i think that deutsche bank , for instance , is under excellent leadership and will fetch excellent results , " he told deutsche welle .
nevertheless , the value of the bank 's stock took a nose dive this year .
that development is something helmer directly attributes to the cebs stress tests .
he said the tests were questionable and so far-reaching that they cast doubt even on healthy institutions .
author : gerhard schneibel / michael braun editor : john blau send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu divided over euro bonds , no increase in bailout funds there was no agreement on plans for joint euro bonds at a meeting of the eurozone finance ministers in brussels on monday , where the eurogroup decided against any increase in the rescue fund for debt-saddled countries .
-lrb- 06.12.2010 -rrb- euro is ' credible , ' not in crisis : trichet ecb president jean-claude trichet has moved to calm jittery financial markets by calling the euro ' credible ' and agreeing to continue the bank 's emergency bond-buying program to prop the struggling eurozone .
-lrb- 03.12.2010 -rrb- irish central bank chief expects ' substantial eu loan ' the head of ireland 's central bank has said the country will likely receive a multi-billion-euro loan to help save the country from financial meltdown .
this comes as an eu / imf mission is in dublin for emergency talks .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- ireland announces sweeping austerity measures to secure bailout the irish government has given details of its most stringent austerity plan ever , aimed at saving 15 billion euros over the next four years .
the cuts are necessary to secure a multi-billion-euro international bailout .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- ireland announces drastic budget cuts as eu bailout is officially approved european union finance ministers formally approved the 85-billion-euro rescue loan for crisis-stricken ireland on tuesday as the country announced the toughest domestic budget in its history .
-lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the irish government unveils a crisis budget -lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- eu leaders want ecb to buy government bonds -lrb- 02.12.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live # programtext # listen live stock exchange today in history 1976 : niki lauda badly injured dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stress tests doubted as ireland suffers from bank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 14.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.12.2010 stress tests doubted as ireland suffers from bank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : are the eu 's bank stress tests accurate enough ?
ireland is floundering under the expense of its bank bailout , but irish banks passed the eu-wide stress tests in july .
some now dismiss the tests as nothing more than a ' placebo ' for the market . when the eu-wide bank stress test results were made public in july , skepticism soon followed .
after all , just seven of 91 banks failed , leading some to believe the tests had been too easy .
none of ireland 's banks failed .
yet the country floundered under the sheer expense of bailing out and reforming its financial system .
in private , the chief financial officer of a european bank recently referred to the stress tests conducted over the past year as nothing more than a " placebo for the market . "
gerhard hofmann , a board member of the national association of german cooperative banks -lrb- bvr -rrb- , is skeptical about the accuracy of the tests .
he is n't aware of any cases in which they " actually had a high level of revelatory value , or a high level of predictive power in regards to future problem areas , " he told deutsche welle .
" what is put under stress today is most likely not tomorrow 's problem . "
first public results bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german financial regulator bafin carried out stress tests in germany according to benjamin fischer , a spokesman for german financial regulator bafin , three german banks were subjected to the first european union-wide stress tests in 2009 .
those results were not published .
the number then jumped to 15 in 2010 , although one bank was the subsidiary of an italian bank and was tested by that country 's financial regulator .
the results of these tests were published .
" it was a novelty that the results were made public , " fischer told deutsche welle .
" naturally , it made working on the stress tests more difficult because the attention was significantly more present . "
stress tests , according to fischer , are hypothetical instruments normally used in the banking industry .
" banks and regulators use stress tests as a kind of early-warning system to identify possible weaknesses ahead of time , " he said .
each eu nation carried out a test prescribed by the committee of european banking supervisors -lrb- cebs -rrb- .
while another stress test is likely in 2011 , it remains to be seen whether or not results will be made public .
a spokesman for cebs declined to comment .
according to the central bank of ireland , the irish stress tests were carried out with higher loan loss rates being applied than actually required by cebs .
still , ireland 's finances buckled and its debt rating plummeted as the country scrambled to save banks teetering on the edge of collapse .
ireland will now receive a bailout from the eu and the international monetary fund worth 85 billion euros -lrb- $ 112 billion -rrb- .
banks tested at status quo michael schroeder , an economist with the centre for european economic research in mannheim , said he does n't believe the irish crisis invalidates the cebs stress tests .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : patrick honohan 's central bank of ireland carried out the stress tests in ireland " the banks were tested at status quo ... and at that point they had already passed on some of their problems to the government , " he told deutsche welle .
each individual bank was placed under artificial stress , schroeder says , but a different picture , he argues , would likely emerge if the pressure were applied system-wide .
" the problem with the financial crisis was that many banks had similar portfolios and reacted similarly – in that they wanted to get rid of their portfolios , " he said .
" i do n't believe the tests depicted the crisis situation with complete accuracy . "
schroeder advocates a method of risk analysis called covar -lrb- conditional value at risk -rrb- , which is capable of simulating " how the portfolio of a bank reacts when there is a shock in all other banks . "
in other words , covar can be used to gain insight into chain reactions throughout a financial system .
it is gaining support throughout the financial world , according to schroeder .
in general , he believes , transparency in stress testing is a worthy objective .
" there was a lot of discussion about whether to publicize the results , " schroeder said .
" if the information is reliable and accurately represents specific problems then , yes , i would publicize it .
those who are active in the market and deal in stocks and investment on a large scale should know about it . "
market supplanted by european central bank one possible pitfall is that stress testing can backfire if publicized results turn out to be inaccurate .
bankers are currently fretting over whether ireland and other troubled eu countries will be able to fully repay government bonds .
to play it safe , they often turn to the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to deposit their assets and secure lines of credit .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future of the euro is linked with that of ireland fidel helmer of the hauck & aufhauser bank says industry-wide mistrust affects all players .
banks lend less among themselves , and the supply and demand for money is routed over the ecb instead of the open market .
" i think that deutsche bank , for instance , is under excellent leadership and will fetch excellent results , " he told deutsche welle .
nevertheless , the value of the bank 's stock took a nose dive this year .
that development is something helmer directly attributes to the cebs stress tests .
he said the tests were questionable and so far-reaching that they cast doubt even on healthy institutions .
author : gerhard schneibel / michael braun editor : john blau send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu divided over euro bonds , no increase in bailout funds there was no agreement on plans for joint euro bonds at a meeting of the eurozone finance ministers in brussels on monday , where the eurogroup decided against any increase in the rescue fund for debt-saddled countries .
-lrb- 06.12.2010 -rrb- euro is ' credible , ' not in crisis : trichet ecb president jean-claude trichet has moved to calm jittery financial markets by calling the euro ' credible ' and agreeing to continue the bank 's emergency bond-buying program to prop the struggling eurozone .
-lrb- 03.12.2010 -rrb- irish central bank chief expects ' substantial eu loan ' the head of ireland 's central bank has said the country will likely receive a multi-billion-euro loan to help save the country from financial meltdown .
this comes as an eu / imf mission is in dublin for emergency talks .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- ireland announces sweeping austerity measures to secure bailout the irish government has given details of its most stringent austerity plan ever , aimed at saving 15 billion euros over the next four years .
the cuts are necessary to secure a multi-billion-euro international bailout .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- ireland announces drastic budget cuts as eu bailout is officially approved european union finance ministers formally approved the 85-billion-euro rescue loan for crisis-stricken ireland on tuesday as the country announced the toughest domestic budget in its history .
-lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the irish government unveils a crisis budget -lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- eu leaders want ecb to buy government bonds -lrb- 02.12.2010 -rrb- feedback how much confidence do you have in the eu banking stress tests ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
labor market foreign employees as companies search for skilled workers , politicians look for ways to lure foreigners to germany .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1875 : albert schweitzer © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 15.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 13.12.2010 uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stop and listen this christmas , says cage against the machine a uk campaign aims to rock the christmas single charts - with the sound of silence .
they 're using experimentalist composer john cage 's masterpiece of silence , 4 ' 33 " , to get people listening to the needs around them . it all started as a joke . last year , a uk campaign succeeded in its aim of preventing the winner of casting show x-factor from becoming christmas number one by encouraging people to help " killing in the name " by us band rage against the machine top the charts . this year , uk art therapy masters student dave hilliard quipped to his friends , " let 's get silence to number one . " " it was meant to be a joke , " julie hilliard , dave hilliard 's wife and co-initiator of cage against the machine -lrb- catm -rrb- , told deutsche welle .
" but it captured the imagination of so many people . " when it comes to getting silence on the charts , the avant-garde work " 4 ' 33 " by american experimental composer john cage -lrb- 1912-1992 -rrb- is the first that comes to mind .
the score calls for any combination of musicians to go on stage and play absolutely nothing for exactly four minutes and 33 seconds .
for some , an agonizing exercise in patience ; for others , ear-opening proof that escape from the unceasing aural bombardment of our multimedia society is , indeed , possible . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john cage was fascinated by incidental sound open your ears the hilliards , along with long-time friend and music pr expert john rogers , are less interested in making a profound artistic statement and keener raising money for a few underfunded charities . starting monday , december 13 , supporters can purchase a specially recorded version of cage 's groundbreaking 1952 work , which included the participation of artists like aeroplane , billy bragg and kooks - though , of course , they ca n't really be heard . they recorded their own version to ensure that the revenue went directly to selected charities , but also because most other editions separate the work 's three movements into three tracks - but only single tracks are eligible for the single charts . revenue from the recordings and from ads on the groups website go to charities like c.a.l.m. , which provides support to young men considering suicide , the british tinnitus association , and organizations that offer music education to underprivileged children . " when you stop talking and you start to look at the world around you , you can see all these other needs that are there , besides your own , " said julie hilliard , adding that the charities they chose particularly reflected their appeal to stop and listen . ' cage would approve ' new york-based john cage expert richard kostelanetz said he did n't think the composer would have objected to the use of his work in this way . " he lived on a very busy avenue and did n't own a record player , because he preferred to listen to the noise outside his house , " kostelanetz told deutsche welle . the cage expert added that the setting of the work is crucial to making it a work of art and that the irony is so much stronger when it is performed by renowned artists - like those involved in catm .
the audience is bound to listen even more intently , knowing what they could be hearing from those artists , if they were actually playing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the black eyed peas are number one this week taking back the charts with more than 80,000 facebook fans as of december 13 , cage against the machine may be well on its way to rocking the uk 's christmas charts . they 'll have stiff competition from black eyed peas , who top this week 's singles chart in the uk with " the time -lrb- dirty bit -rrb- " and from matt cardle , the most recent winner of the uk 's popular casting show , x factor . the media has largely focused on the cage against the machine campaign as a counterpoint to market-tailored pop ballade and , specifically , to x factor .
however , hilliard said she and her husband have nothing against the casting show , but simply are n't interested in watching it . " if you do n't like it , do n't turn it on ; if you do n't like the record , do n't buy it , " she said . and if cage against the machine has its way , christmas eve in the uk will truly be a silent night - or at least one filled with incidental noise . author : kate bowen editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de music hotel brings new beat to berlin berlin 's new music hotel , nhow , combines luxury , design and quality musical facilities .
it hopes to bridge the gap between international and local artists - but the city 's underground scene is n't easily impressed .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- young german pianist unites classical music with world of video games benyamin nuss , 21 , has been wowing audiences in some of europe 's finest concert halls with solo piano interpretations of video game music by nobuo uematsu .
he spoke to deutsche welle about this unusual project .
-lrb- 04.12.2010 -rrb- france to start carte musique digital music subsidy plan france hopes to change young shoppers ' habits by subsidizing the sale of music with a " music card . "
but the government has not yet said which online services people will be able to use to make purchases .
-lrb- 27.10.2010 -rrb- feedback what will you be listening to on christmas ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski clip no. 9 - the bonny situation subscribe on itunes get the rss feed visit germany dw-tv tells you the top things to visit in this fun rhineland city .
" recommended " as video on demand download here -lrb- mp4 -rrb- cologne cologne carnival the claudius therme ' suenner im walfisch ' brewery -lrb- german -rrb- word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
victims of abuse in children 's homes ' betrayed ' by compensation proposal -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 13.12.2010 victims of abuse in children 's homes ' betrayed ' by compensation proposal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many victims feel betrayed by the round table 's results a panel called to investigate the systematic maltreatment of thousands of juveniles in children 's homes in the 1950s and 1960s has recommended the payment of compensation .
but many victims feel betrayed . an extra-parliamentary panel in berlin on monday presented the results of two years of round-table negotiations on how to compensate tens of thousands of former children and youths for the systematic wrongdoings they had to endure at the hands of educators in west germany 's children 's homes in the 1950s and 1960s .
the panel recommended that victims who suffered torture , maltreatment and humiliation receive compensation from a 120-million-euro -lrb- $ 160 million -rrb- fund financed by the german government , federal states and churches .
the payments are to be used for pension funds , for treatment of subsequent damages or as rent assistance .
" children in children 's homes were never able to argue for their rights by themselves , " said antje vollmer , head of the round-table group of politicians , church representatives and victims .
" this is why they are still entitled to financial compensation . " the german parliament bundestag and the federal states ' parliaments have yet to decide on the round table 's proposals , but georg gorissen , the representative of the federal government and the western german federal states , said they were in favor of the compensation funds .
the catholic and the protestant church announced they would pay their share of the funds .
30,000 could make use of the funds twenty million euros are planned for pension payments since a lot of children had to start working at the age of 14 , but the children 's homes declined to pay into their pension funds .
another 100 million euros should go towards the treating the consequences of the abuse .
according to recent investigations , about 30,000 people are eligible for compensation .
so far , around 2,500 former victims have come forward .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " we did n't achieve all our goals , but we did achieve a lot , " said wiegand hans-siegfried wiegand , one of the more prominent victims participating in the round table negotiations , said that not all demands had been met .
victims groups had been aiming for a monthly lump-sum payment of 300 euros or a single payment of around 50,000 euros .
" we did n't achieve all of our goals , but we did achieve a lot , " wiegand said .
compensation is a " farce " the chairwoman of the association of former children 's homes residents , monika tschapek-guentner called the compensation funds a " farce " and dismissed case-to-case examinations .
tschapek-guentner is still demanding lump-sum payments to all victims .
the 120-million-euro fund is an " outrage , " amounting to between just 2,000-4,000 euros for each victim .
" that is really humiliating , " she said .
" that 's an attempt to drop the issue with minimum compensation . "
the association advised victims to claim money from the funds .
but tschapek-guentner is planning to take the case further .
" i will go as far as the european court of justice , " she said .
another member of the round-table , juergen beverfoerden , added that victims had been under a lot of pressure at the talks .
" there was the threat that we wo n't get anything if we do n't agree to the final report , " he said .
antje vollmer rebuffed the accusations . justice minister sabine leutheusser-schnarrenberger said that " earmarked funds are an appropriate reaction to individual injustice , " but said she also understood that expectations of victims might have been higher .
the head of the catholic church in germany , robert zollitsch and his protestant counterpart , nikolaus schneider , both advocated a quick and unbureaucratic establishment of the fund .
up to 800,000 children lived in german children 's homes between 1949 and 1975 , run by the government as well as by churches .
author : sarah steffen -lrb- epd , ap , kna , afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany launches campaign for sexual abuse victims to speak out in response to the child abuse scandal in the catholic church , thousands of german victims are being targeted by a new campaign that aims to end their silent suffering .
the message is that talking helps .
-lrb- 21.09.2010 -rrb- cases of sex abuse emerge from former east germany following the scandals of child sex abuse in the roman catholic church and private schools in western germany , new revelations have now emerged about abuse in former communist east germany .
-lrb- 01.04.2010 -rrb- germany urges catholic church to come clean on child abuse the german government has called on the catholic church to play a proactive role in clarifying the widening allegations of clerical sex abuse at catholic schools throughout the country .
-lrb- 21.02.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ' too little , too late ' -lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- victims of abuse set to receive compensation -lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
victims of abuse in children 's homes ' betrayed ' by compensation proposal -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 06.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 13.12.2010 victims of abuse in children 's homes ' betrayed ' by compensation proposal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many victims feel betrayed by the round table 's results a panel called to investigate the systematic maltreatment of thousands of juveniles in children 's homes in the 1950s and 1960s has recommended the payment of compensation .
but many victims feel betrayed . an extra-parliamentary panel in berlin on monday presented the results of two years of round-table negotiations on how to compensate tens of thousands of former children and youths for the systematic wrongdoings they had to endure at the hands of educators in west germany 's children 's homes in the 1950s and 1960s .
the panel recommended that victims who suffered torture , maltreatment and humiliation receive compensation from a 120-million-euro -lrb- $ 160 million -rrb- fund financed by the german government , federal states and churches .
the payments are to be used for pension funds , for treatment of subsequent damages or as rent assistance .
" children in children 's homes were never able to argue for their rights by themselves , " said antje vollmer , head of the round-table group of politicians , church representatives and victims .
" this is why they are still entitled to financial compensation . " the german parliament bundestag and the federal states ' parliaments have yet to decide on the round table 's proposals , but georg gorissen , the representative of the federal government and the western german federal states , said they were in favor of the compensation funds .
the catholic and the protestant church announced they would pay their share of the funds .
30,000 could make use of the funds twenty million euros are planned for pension payments since a lot of children had to start working at the age of 14 , but the children 's homes declined to pay into their pension funds .
another 100 million euros should go towards the treating the consequences of the abuse .
according to recent investigations , about 30,000 people are eligible for compensation .
so far , around 2,500 former victims have come forward .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " we did n't achieve all our goals , but we did achieve a lot , " said wiegand hans-siegfried wiegand , one of the more prominent victims participating in the round table negotiations , said that not all demands had been met .
victims groups had been aiming for a monthly lump-sum payment of 300 euros or a single payment of around 50,000 euros .
" we did n't achieve all of our goals , but we did achieve a lot , " wiegand said .
compensation is a " farce " the chairwoman of the association of former children 's homes residents , monika tschapek-guentner called the compensation funds a " farce " and dismissed case-to-case examinations .
tschapek-guentner is still demanding lump-sum payments to all victims .
the 120-million-euro fund is an " outrage , " amounting to between just 2,000-4,000 euros for each victim .
" that is really humiliating , " she said .
" that 's an attempt to drop the issue with minimum compensation . "
the association advised victims to claim money from the funds .
but tschapek-guentner is planning to take the case further .
" i will go as far as the european court of justice , " she said .
another member of the round-table , juergen beverfoerden , added that victims had been under a lot of pressure at the talks .
" there was the threat that we wo n't get anything if we do n't agree to the final report , " he said .
antje vollmer rebuffed the accusations . justice minister sabine leutheusser-schnarrenberger said that " earmarked funds are an appropriate reaction to individual injustice , " but said she also understood that expectations of victims might have been higher .
the head of the catholic church in germany , robert zollitsch and his protestant counterpart , nikolaus schneider , both advocated a quick and unbureaucratic establishment of the fund .
up to 800,000 children lived in german children 's homes between 1949 and 1975 , run by the government as well as by churches .
author : sarah steffen -lrb- epd , ap , kna , afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany launches campaign for sexual abuse victims to speak out in response to the child abuse scandal in the catholic church , thousands of german victims are being targeted by a new campaign that aims to end their silent suffering .
the message is that talking helps .
-lrb- 21.09.2010 -rrb- cases of sex abuse emerge from former east germany following the scandals of child sex abuse in the roman catholic church and private schools in western germany , new revelations have now emerged about abuse in former communist east germany .
-lrb- 01.04.2010 -rrb- germany urges catholic church to come clean on child abuse the german government has called on the catholic church to play a proactive role in clarifying the widening allegations of clerical sex abuse at catholic schools throughout the country .
-lrb- 21.02.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ' too little , too late ' -lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- victims of abuse set to receive compensation -lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- feedback how much compensation should victims receive ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air artistic happenings across europe listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for iran nuclear talks to continue despite minister firing -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 07.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 13.12.2010 germany calls for iran nuclear talks to continue despite minister firing großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran has only just resumed nuclear talks with the 5 + 1 group iran 's foreign minister has been dismissed by president mahmoud ahmadinejad shortly after the country resumed talks with the west over its nuclear program , leading germany to urge iran to continue in the talks . german foreign minister guido westerwelle called on iran to continue negotiations with world powers over its contentious nuclear activities despite the firing of his iranian counterpart on monday .
" we trust that the talks that have just begun in geneva will continue and that different political line-ups will not lead to an interruption or a hesitation at those talks , " westerwelle said ahead of a regular eu foreign ministers meeting in brussels .
germany and the five permanent members of the united nations security council resumed talks with iran in the swiss city last week after a 14-month hiatus .
the so-called 5 + 1 group and iran agreed to meet again in istanbul in january .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mottaki was not part of iran 's negotiating team in geneva iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad dismissed his foreign minister manouchehr mottaki , a career diplomat in the office since august 2005 .
the iranian government offered no public explanation of the firing .
while mottaki has been staunch defender of iran 's nuclear program and ahmadinejad , the two men reportedly had differences in policy views over the past few months .
ahmadinejad named ali-akbar salehi , iran 's nuclear energy chief , as mottaki 's interim replacement .
neither mottaki nor salehi was part of the geneva negotiating team , which was headed by the head of the supreme national security council , saeid jalili .
iran says its nuclear enrichment program is peaceful , but the west fears it is eventually planning to build a nuclear bomb .
the un security council has imposed several rounds of sanctions on iran because of the enrichment .
author : andrew bowen -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de no real breakthrough as 5 + 1 talks on iran end nuclear talks between the 5 + 1 group and iran have ended in geneva with little sign of progress .
although the two sides have agreed to meet again , the sticking point is the demand for iran to suspend uranium enrichment .
-lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- defiant iran says nuclear position is ' non-negotiable ' diplomats from several world powers met with iran on monday to discuss its nuclear program .
before the meeting , the 5 + 1 team said it would hold firm to its position that iran should stop enriching uranium .
-lrb- 06.12.2010 -rrb- iran agrees to resume negotiations as eu tightens sanctions european foreign ministers have approved tighter sanctions on iran .
tehran has condemned the measures but at the same time signalled it was willing to resume negotiations over its nuclear program .
-lrb- 26.07.2010 -rrb- 9797 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art german photographer lala aufsberg 's work is a fascinating historical record of the 20th century .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
all i want for christmas is ... -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de christmas -pipe- 13.12.2010 all i want for christmas is ... großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children have left instructions for christmas gift-givers for over a century toothpaste may seem like an unusual item on a christmas wish list - but over a century ago , it was n't so strange .
an exhibition in dortmund unveils the touching and sometimes comical history of holiday wish lists . in some countries , christmas presents are exchanged on the morning of december 25 , while most europeans give gifts on the evening of the 24th .
no matter when they 're unwrapped , it 's hard to imagine christmas without presents . the tradition , however , is relatively new .
it was n't until the end of the 19th century that gift-giving was associated with christmas in germany .
before that , st. nicholas brought presents to well-behaved children on december 6 . with the advent of gifts , it was only inevitable that children would help the givers - real and imagined - out with wish lists . " the development of the christmas gift-giving tradition mainly had to do with the fact that more presents and toys were available as a result of industrialization , " historian isolde parussel told deutsche welle . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a christmas gift table may have looked like this in the 19th century of course , not everyone could afford the new toys , but that did n't keep children from writing out their wishes . old toys made just like new parussel is behind the exhibition " … bring us many nice things , " which is currently on show at the museum of art and cultural history in the western german city of dortmund .
over 100 holiday wish lists are on display , along with decorative gift tables , toys and festive christmas trees from the past century . most of the items were collected from private households following a request published in german newspapers . some of the wish lists are addressed to st. nicholas or santa claus , but many were written to the ' christkind ' - a sprite-like child , usually depicted with blond hair and angelic wings . in one list from 1899 , a young girl hoped for " a dress for -lsb- my doll -rsb- fraenzchen , a set of colored pencils , a sailor 's hat for me " but also " calling cards and a tube of calodont tooth paste . "
at the end of the 19th century , tooth paste in tubes was extremely modern - something extraordinary even for a little girl . as the end of the girl 's letter reveals , gifts were n't necessarily expected to be new .
" and then , dear christkind , -lsb- my dolls -rsb- siegfried and dori need to be taken to the hospital .
dori 's hair is growing very sparsely on her head and her limbs are very droopy .
both of these things need to be fixed , " wrote the girl . despite having to organize presents for so many children , the christkind occasionally found time to write back .
one such letter - composed on a typewriter and dated christmas eve , 1911 - is included in the exhibition ; parussel suspects , of course , that it was written by the parents .
" the angels say that you and -lsb- your sister -rsb- staenzerl were n't very good doll mothers this year , " read the letter : " under these circumstances , entrusting you with a real baby seems to be too much of a responsibility . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : isolde parussel curated the dortmund exhibition apparently , the girls had wished for a sibling - a gift their parents apparently were n't yet willing to provide . some things do n't change the letters and lists offer insights into the everyday lives of various generations .
children from the post-world war ii generation wanted nothing more than a warm hat or a notebook for school .
one short generation later , one girl asked for a knee-length skirt , according to the trend of the time . the most recent wish list in the collection is from 2008 .
jascha from dortmund had cut out pictures from catalogues - complete with price tags - to illustrate his list , which mainly consisted of electronics . jascha 's wishes are expensive , but , when taking the standard of living into account , they 're not necessarily more valuable than the things children asked for a century ago , said parussel . " you ca n't necessarily say that this child is just focused on consumption , " she said .
he put just as much effort into his wish list , writing it neatly and decorating it with colored pencils . " author : sola huelsewig -lrb- kjb -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de toys r ' scarce in german stores toy makers and retailers in germany could n't be happier : christmas shoppers appear to have a near insatiable appetite for toys .
products from traditional european toymakers like lego and playmobil are in high demand .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- racism controversy dampens holland 's sinterklaas tradition children across europe eagerly await the arrival of st. nicholas on december 6 .
but in holland , the tradition has racist implications that the dutch are n't quite willing to give up .
-lrb- 05.12.2010 -rrb- ' dear christkind ' : a german post office answers christmas letters in the small town of engelskirchen , thousands of letters from around the world arrive at a seasonal christmas post office , all addressed to one person .
for over 20 years , postal workers have written back .
-lrb- 24.12.2009 -rrb- feedback do you have a special christmas tradition in your family ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art meet several artists who live in a small world and miniaturize their work .
the filmmaker the model builder the engraver the painter the photographer podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 10 - 1000 robota with a new take on punk subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press opinion : wikileaks ' latest release is a diplomatic waterloo africa -pipe- 13.12.2010 wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell gained information on all aspects of nigeria 's oil business the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria . leaked us diplomatic cables from last year , carried by a number of international newspapers and magazines , show that royal dutch shell - among the major oil producers in nigeria - have infiltrated key nigerian ministries and have been using links to us officials to gain information on rival oil companies in the country , and the movements and objectives of militants in the niger delta region .
shell 's level of penetration into the governmental structure of nigeria - one of the world 's largest oil exporters - have given the company access to politicians and decision-makers at the highest level , providing it with insider knowledge of all movements and negotiations within those ministries .
according to dr. heinz jockers , a nigeria expert and a member of the eu election observation mission to nigeria , shell has personnel in the finance , interior , national planning , defense , environment , energy and foreign affairs ministries as well as influence over a number of presidential advisers , parliamentarians , governors , and high-ranked tribal rulers .
high level infiltration in major ministeries and oil-producing states " shell operatives - although they are unofficially employed by the company - have infiltrated the majority of the most important ministries in the nigerian government , " jockers told deutsche welle .
" they will of course also have their people in the ministries of the main oil-producing states . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell used nigerian sources to help secure its interests jockers said that the main aim of the shell operatives would be to gain information on everything which could in one way or the other affect the company 's business .
" areas of interest for these people would be the position of other competitors , be it companies or countries ; their offers regarding oil deals in nigeria , the pricing scale for oil in the country , and the level of governmental support for security , " he said .
the leaked cables show that shell had obtained information that nigeria had invited bids for oil concessions from china and was concerned at the possibility of increased competition from the people 's republic .
they also show that shell executives requested confirmation from us officials on russian gas giant gazprom 's interest in nigeria after information was obtained from ministerial channels .
jockers added that the practice of infiltration was so widespread that it is highly likely that other large companies have embedded personnel in governmental offices as this was the only way that advantages in business could be gained in nigeria .
" these could include : julius berger , chevron , hochtief , siemens , peugeot , haliburton , and mercedes , " he said .
" you have to remember : nigeria is a chaotic and highly corrupt country .
to do business there , you have to play the game . "
shell contacted us officials over delta militant threat bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell wanted us help with getting information on militants ann pickard , shell 's top executive in nigeria , was also revealed to have spoken to us officials in 2008 about the threat of militants in the niger delta which had , at its peak in 2006 , shut down a quarter of nigeria 's oil output .
an amnesty in 2009 ended the acts of sabotage being carried out on vulnerable pipelines and platforms , such as shell 's soku gas facility which had been the target of militant rocket attacks at the height of the so-called oil war .
" shell had been the main target of attacks by militants since the early 1990s , " heinrich bergstresser , a nigeria expert at the german institute of global and area studies -lrb- giga -rrb- in hamburg , told deutsche welle .
" the sabotages and attacks on shell 's installations , among others , were and are executed not just by militants but also orchestrated by complicit agents within the oil companies .
they benefit from the attacks because these people are very often also in charge of managing the payment of compensation which offers the opportunity to keep certain amounts of the payment for themselves . "
the cable dispatches from 2008 showed that shell 's pickard had contacted the us consulate in lagos with an offer to share " intelligence " on militant activity in exchange for information on a shipment of surface-to-air missiles which had allegedly been destined for nigerian militant groups in the delta region .
cables hint at shell 's involvement with local godfathers the cables describe how pickard was also unconvinced that a certain governor in the delta region " lacked the connections among rivers state militant leaders to successfully coopt them as the governors in delta and bayelsa states have done with militants in their states , " and that she believed the clash between the military and militants was " a proxy war for ongoing disputes " between rival governors .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : playing both sides in the delta struggle is a dangerous game this section of the cable transcripts hints at the possibility that shell has been attempting to use its influence to control local leaders , a comlicated and dangerous practice according to heinrich bergstresser .
" shell is playing with fire if it has or had any connection with the governors and militants , " he said .
" on the one hand , the oil companies can not control the governors but on the other hand they can try to persuade them to act in favor of the companies and in their own interest .
i am sure that they are paying certain amounts to the governors but that does not guarantee anything . "
bergstresser added that very often the oil companies find themselves caught between a rock and a hard place .
" the militias have emancipated themselves from their political godfathers and have started their own business of attacks and kidnappings so the oil companies find themselves sandwiched between profit-making , being threatened by militias , and keeping very close relationships with the federal government . "
author : nick amies editor : rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de illegal arms shipments to nigeria raise stakes ahead of 2011 elections general elections in nigeria are still several months away , but tensions are rising with memories still fresh of the 2007 poll which saw widespread allegations of corruption , voter fraud and violence .
-lrb- 01.12.2010 -rrb- biafra war anniversary highlights nigeria ’ s uncertain future " biafra " was the taunt german children used for skinny kids in the late 60s - the term was synonymous with starvation .
it is now 40 years since the end of the biafra war , and nigeria 's future still hangs in the balance .
-lrb- 15.01.2010 -rrb- shell settles lawsuit over killing of nigerian activists european oil giant royal dutch shell has agreed to pay $ 15.5 million -lrb- 11.2 million euros -rrb- to the families of six nigerian activists executed in 1995 but has refused to accept any liability for the violence .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- feedback in your opinion , has shell done anything wrong by gaining influence in nigerian government ministeries ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press opinion : wikileaks ' latest release is a diplomatic waterloo africa -pipe- 13.12.2010 wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell gained information on all aspects of nigeria 's oil business the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria . leaked us diplomatic cables from last year , carried by a number of international newspapers and magazines , show that royal dutch shell - among the major oil producers in nigeria - have infiltrated key nigerian ministries and have been using links to us officials to gain information on rival oil companies in the country , and the movements and objectives of militants in the niger delta region .
shell 's level of penetration into the governmental structure of nigeria - one of the world 's largest oil exporters - have given the company access to politicians and decision-makers at the highest level , providing it with insider knowledge of all movements and negotiations within those ministries .
according to dr. heinz jockers , a nigeria expert and a member of the eu election observation mission to nigeria , shell has personnel in the finance , interior , national planning , defense , environment , energy and foreign affairs ministries as well as influence over a number of presidential advisers , parliamentarians , governors , and high-ranked tribal rulers .
high level infiltration in major ministeries and oil-producing states " shell operatives - although they are unofficially employed by the company - have infiltrated the majority of the most important ministries in the nigerian government , " jockers told deutsche welle .
" they will of course also have their people in the ministries of the main oil-producing states . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell used nigerian sources to help secure its interests jockers said that the main aim of the shell operatives would be to gain information on everything which could in one way or the other affect the company 's business .
" areas of interest for these people would be the position of other competitors , be it companies or countries ; their offers regarding oil deals in nigeria , the pricing scale for oil in the country , and the level of governmental support for security , " he said .
the leaked cables show that shell had obtained information that nigeria had invited bids for oil concessions from china and was concerned at the possibility of increased competition from the people 's republic .
they also show that shell executives requested confirmation from us officials on russian gas giant gazprom 's interest in nigeria after information was obtained from ministerial channels .
jockers added that the practice of infiltration was so widespread that it is highly likely that other large companies have embedded personnel in governmental offices as this was the only way that advantages in business could be gained in nigeria .
" these could include : julius berger , chevron , hochtief , siemens , peugeot , haliburton , and mercedes , " he said .
" you have to remember : nigeria is a chaotic and highly corrupt country .
to do business there , you have to play the game . "
shell contacted us officials over delta militant threat bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell wanted us help with getting information on militants ann pickard , shell 's top executive in nigeria , was also revealed to have spoken to us officials in 2008 about the threat of militants in the niger delta which had , at its peak in 2006 , shut down a quarter of nigeria 's oil output .
an amnesty in 2009 ended the acts of sabotage being carried out on vulnerable pipelines and platforms , such as shell 's soku gas facility which had been the target of militant rocket attacks at the height of the so-called oil war .
" shell had been the main target of attacks by militants since the early 1990s , " heinrich bergstresser , a nigeria expert at the german institute of global and area studies -lrb- giga -rrb- in hamburg , told deutsche welle .
" the sabotages and attacks on shell 's installations , among others , were and are executed not just by militants but also orchestrated by complicit agents within the oil companies .
they benefit from the attacks because these people are very often also in charge of managing the payment of compensation which offers the opportunity to keep certain amounts of the payment for themselves . "
the cable dispatches from 2008 showed that shell 's pickard had contacted the us consulate in lagos with an offer to share " intelligence " on militant activity in exchange for information on a shipment of surface-to-air missiles which had allegedly been destined for nigerian militant groups in the delta region .
cables hint at shell 's involvement with local godfathers the cables describe how pickard was also unconvinced that a certain governor in the delta region " lacked the connections among rivers state militant leaders to successfully coopt them as the governors in delta and bayelsa states have done with militants in their states , " and that she believed the clash between the military and militants was " a proxy war for ongoing disputes " between rival governors .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : playing both sides in the delta struggle is a dangerous game this section of the cable transcripts hints at the possibility that shell has been attempting to use its influence to control local leaders , a comlicated and dangerous practice according to heinrich bergstresser .
" shell is playing with fire if it has or had any connection with the governors and militants , " he said .
" on the one hand , the oil companies can not control the governors but on the other hand they can try to persuade them to act in favor of the companies and in their own interest .
i am sure that they are paying certain amounts to the governors but that does not guarantee anything . "
bergstresser added that very often the oil companies find themselves caught between a rock and a hard place .
" the militias have emancipated themselves from their political godfathers and have started their own business of attacks and kidnappings so the oil companies find themselves sandwiched between profit-making , being threatened by militias , and keeping very close relationships with the federal government . "
author : nick amies editor : rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de illegal arms shipments to nigeria raise stakes ahead of 2011 elections general elections in nigeria are still several months away , but tensions are rising with memories still fresh of the 2007 poll which saw widespread allegations of corruption , voter fraud and violence .
-lrb- 01.12.2010 -rrb- biafra war anniversary highlights nigeria ’ s uncertain future " biafra " was the taunt german children used for skinny kids in the late 60s - the term was synonymous with starvation .
it is now 40 years since the end of the biafra war , and nigeria 's future still hangs in the balance .
-lrb- 15.01.2010 -rrb- shell settles lawsuit over killing of nigerian activists european oil giant royal dutch shell has agreed to pay $ 15.5 million -lrb- 11.2 million euros -rrb- to the families of six nigerian activists executed in 1995 but has refused to accept any liability for the violence .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- feedback in your opinion , has shell done anything wrong by gaining influence in nigerian government ministeries ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
caucasus violence explodes in the republic of dagestan amid militants ' efforts to create a muslim nation .
listen to the report .
bundles of booty where do dictators stash their cash ?
asset trackers use ' ladders ' to follow the money .
listen to the report .
transatlantic voices germany 's gremlins berlin needs an overdue debate on what the responsibility to protect means for germany and europe .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
germany calls for iran nuclear talks to continue despite minister firing -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de diplomacy -pipe- 13.12.2010 germany calls for iran nuclear talks to continue despite minister firing großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : iran has only just resumed nuclear talks with the 5 + 1 group iran 's foreign minister has been dismissed by president mahmoud ahmadinejad shortly after the country resumed talks with the west over its nuclear program , leading germany to urge iran to continue in the talks . german foreign minister guido westerwelle called on iran to continue negotiations with world powers over its contentious nuclear activities despite the firing of his iranian counterpart on monday .
" we trust that the talks that have just begun in geneva will continue and that different political line-ups will not lead to an interruption or a hesitation at those talks , " westerwelle said ahead of a regular eu foreign ministers meeting in brussels .
germany and the five permanent members of the united nations security council resumed talks with iran in the swiss city last week after a 14-month hiatus .
the so-called 5 + 1 group and iran agreed to meet again in istanbul in january .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mottaki was not part of iran 's negotiating team in geneva iranian president mahmoud ahmadinejad dismissed his foreign minister manouchehr mottaki , a career diplomat in the office since august 2005 .
the iranian government offered no public explanation of the firing .
while mottaki has been staunch defender of iran 's nuclear program and ahmadinejad , the two men reportedly had differences in policy views over the past few months .
ahmadinejad named ali-akbar salehi , iran 's nuclear energy chief , as mottaki 's interim replacement .
neither mottaki nor salehi was part of the geneva negotiating team , which was headed by the head of the supreme national security council , saeid jalili .
iran says its nuclear enrichment program is peaceful , but the west fears it is eventually planning to build a nuclear bomb .
the un security council has imposed several rounds of sanctions on iran because of the enrichment .
author : andrew bowen -lrb- dpa , afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de no real breakthrough as 5 + 1 talks on iran end nuclear talks between the 5 + 1 group and iran have ended in geneva with little sign of progress .
although the two sides have agreed to meet again , the sticking point is the demand for iran to suspend uranium enrichment .
-lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- defiant iran says nuclear position is ' non-negotiable ' diplomats from several world powers met with iran on monday to discuss its nuclear program .
before the meeting , the 5 + 1 team said it would hold firm to its position that iran should stop enriching uranium .
-lrb- 06.12.2010 -rrb- iran agrees to resume negotiations as eu tightens sanctions european foreign ministers have approved tighter sanctions on iran .
tehran has condemned the measures but at the same time signalled it was willing to resume negotiations over its nuclear program .
-lrb- 26.07.2010 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal - nachrichten mit tagesthema we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
business the historic german brand faber-castell celebrates 250 years of making pencils and pens .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 01.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 13.12.2010 hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamed does n't know who fired the bullets that hit him a visit to the two hospitals in the war-torn helmand region of afghanistan exposes the horrors that innocent civilians , so-called collateral damage caught in the crossfire , experience in modern wartime . " no weapons allowed beyond this point , " reads a sign at the entrance of boost hospital in lashkar gah , afghanistan .
such advice may be redundant elsewhere , but here at boost it is as much a declaration of principle as a regulation .
lashkar gah is the capital of helmand province - one of afghanistan 's biggest battlefields .
the region may look like a wasteland but it is still able to produce more heroin than anywhere else in the rest of the world .
in a place like this , travelling often means taking roads that may be laid with explosives , or shelled by helicopters .
it 's little wonder , then , that common health problems often become real emergencies .
no questions asked " we do not ask anyone which side they belong to , or who injured them .
our work is limited to offering free medical care to anyone who comes to the hospital , " says stefano argenziano .
he is the project coordinator for doctors without borders - known by its french acronym msf - in helmand province .
accordingly , nobody at boost speaks of " taliban terrorists ; " they use the term " government opposition " instead .
there are more than 2,000 ngos registered in kabul , but just a handful of these have a field presence .
msf is one of those rare groups .
it relies solely on private funds and , unlike many other groups , does not have paid soldiers protecting the safety of its staff .
even the usual barbed wire and sandbags are n't to be found at the camp where msf staff lodges .
" we try not to be in the same place as foreign troops .
nonetheless , our best calling card is our work , " argenziano said .
" we have earned the respect of local people because everybody knows what we are all about . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a sign tells you not to take your gun into the hospital msf resumed its work in afghanistan after an absence of five years , following the murder of five of its staff in badghis province in 2004 .
their humanitarian mission in lashkar gah , supporting boost hospital , was launched in november , 2009 .
boost is one of the two reference hospitals in the war-torn south of the country , alongside the one in kandahar .
a reference hospital is the term used by the world health organization for hospitals that accept complex cases for cutting-edge diagnosis and treatment .
ilona is a nurse who arrived in afghanistan from germany two years ago .
today , she moves gently but swiftly through the sea of blue burkhas in the female section of boost hospital .
patients from all over " many of the cases we handle deal with malnutrition in infants after drinking cow or goat milk .
their mothers are anemic and ca n't breast-feed , so the children suffer from chronic gastroenteritis because they are unable to process the animal milk , " she said .
there are also afghan nurses at boost , and assadullah - a native of the relatively peaceful northern region mazar , is one of them .
" we also treat those hospitalized for an overdose of heroin or simply the most direct victims of this war , " she said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : did the british wound - then save- ihmatullah ? -lrb- right -rrb- civilian casualties and deaths continue to increase in afghanistan , despite a commitment by nato troops to avoid them .
un figures suggest isaf troops are causing less " collateral damage " - army-speak for injured civilians - but insurgents continue to target civilians , so casualties are rising .
a un report on civilian casualties in afghanistan , released in the summer of 2010 , showed civilian deaths and injuries in the country had increased by 31 percent from a year earlier , to 3,268 . the un attributed 76 per cent of these incidents to insurgents – up from 53 per cent in 2009 .
mistaken for taliban ?
at boost , msf is primarily responsible for pediatrics and maternity .
but its not hard to find direct victims of the war as well .
take sharifullah , for instance .
a 16-year-old boy , he was shot in the stomach during the celebrations of the end of ramadan .
his older brother , abdullhaq , says he believes the wound came from british troops .
" it came from a british convoy .
the kids began to run alongside the road .
the soldiers probably took them for a gang of talibs and shot , " abdullhaq said .
he added that four months ago , four children in his village were killed the same way .
assadullah , who was briefing sharifullah on how to walk with crutches , said such cases of injury via coalition fire were " unfortunately very common " at boost .
ihmatullah , a 16-year-old shepherd from musa qala , was also possibly injured by coalition fire .
he was hit by rocket shrapnel one night while he was sleeping outdoors .
according to his father , abdulwazid , it was the british who wounded his son - then stabilized him and brought him to boost .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : six-year-old daudchan lost a leg ; his brother lost two laura mendikoa is an experienced nurse from mexico who has worked around the world , doing stints in liberia , somalia , kenya and mexico - and now helmland .
" back home life is doubtless more comfortable but it 's much more rewarding here , " she said .
mendikoa 's job one recent day was treating abdulraziq , a 13-year old from neighboring farah province who was admitted three weeks earlier after he had a life-changing encounter with an ied , or improvised explosive device .
he lost an eye and his right hand in the blast .
ieds and other tragedies sudden tragedy also changed the lives of six-year-old daudchan and his four-year-old brother , mahmadullah .
daudchan lost his leg , and his brother lost both legs .
" they were travelling with their father on a motorcycle when they had the misfortune of running over an ied , " the children 's grandfather said , holding daudchan 's bandaged stump .
" my son was luckier : he has only lost the toes of his right foot , " he added in a resigned voice .
in the building adjacent to boost hospital , an italian ngo callled emergency runs a hospital that specializes in treating the war-wounded , specializing in victims of land mines .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : doctor matteo dell 'aira was arrested and held in afghanistan at the entrance one friday , a smiling child gave his three-fingered hand to a visitor to shake .
but the child was no longer a patient - he was there to see his brother .
friday is not only a day of prayer , it 's a day to visit wounded relatives in the hospital .
the emergency hospital in lashkar gah has been in operation since 2004 , and it is the third one the milan-based ngo runs in afghanistan .
the other two are in the northern districts of panjshir and kabul , open since 1999 and 2001 respectively .
not surprisingly , the one in lashkar gah is the busiest of the three .
around 90 percent of the patients admitted are civilians - and 40 percent of those are children , according to matteo dell 'aira , the local medical coordinator .
read more on the plight of afghan civilians 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opposition blasts visit to afghanistan by defense minister and wife german defense minister karl theodor zu guttenberg is in afghanistan on an unannounced visit with his wife stephanie .
it ’ s the first time a german defense minister is being accompanied by his wife to a warzone .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- local builders risk losing out in afghanistan 's helmand province us marines and local businessmen are laying down the foundations for reconstruction in one of the taliban 's biggest strongholds in afghanistan .
but helmand is likely to remain a place where many die and a few get rich .
-lrb- 16.10.2010 -rrb- operation to remove taliban from marjah sends thousands fleeing the civilian population of marjah , a farming community in helmand , afghanistan , are fleeing ahead of a huge nato operation designed to defeat the entrenched taliban in the region and restore government control .
-lrb- 10.02.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the ngos on the ground in afghanistan can sigificantly impact the war there ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
caucasus violence explodes in the republic of dagestan amid militants ' efforts to create a muslim nation .
listen to the report .
bundles of booty where do dictators stash their cash ?
asset trackers use ' ladders ' to follow the money .
listen to the report .
transatlantic voices germany 's gremlins berlin needs an overdue debate on what the responsibility to protect means for germany and europe .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 13.12.2010 uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stop and listen this christmas , says cage against the machine a uk campaign aims to rock the christmas single charts - with the sound of silence .
they 're using experimentalist composer john cage 's masterpiece of silence , 4 ' 33 " , to get people listening to the needs around them . it all started as a joke . last year , a uk campaign succeeded in its aim of preventing the winner of casting show x-factor from becoming christmas number one by encouraging people to help " killing in the name " by us band rage against the machine top the charts . this year , uk art therapy masters student dave hilliard quipped to his friends , " let 's get silence to number one . " " it was meant to be a joke , " julie hilliard , dave hilliard 's wife and co-initiator of cage against the machine -lrb- catm -rrb- , told deutsche welle .
" but it captured the imagination of so many people . " when it comes to getting silence on the charts , the avant-garde work " 4 ' 33 " by american experimental composer john cage -lrb- 1912-1992 -rrb- is the first that comes to mind .
the score calls for any combination of musicians to go on stage and play absolutely nothing for exactly four minutes and 33 seconds .
for some , an agonizing exercise in patience ; for others , ear-opening proof that escape from the unceasing aural bombardment of our multimedia society is , indeed , possible . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john cage was fascinated by incidental sound open your ears the hilliards , along with long-time friend and music pr expert john rogers , are less interested in making a profound artistic statement and keener raising money for a few underfunded charities . starting monday , december 13 , supporters can purchase a specially recorded version of cage 's groundbreaking 1952 work , which included the participation of artists like aeroplane , billy bragg and kooks - though , of course , they ca n't really be heard . they recorded their own version to ensure that the revenue went directly to selected charities , but also because most other editions separate the work 's three movements into three tracks - but only single tracks are eligible for the single charts . revenue from the recordings and from ads on the groups website go to charities like c.a.l.m. , which provides support to young men considering suicide , the british tinnitus association , and organizations that offer music education to underprivileged children . " when you stop talking and you start to look at the world around you , you can see all these other needs that are there , besides your own , " said julie hilliard , adding that the charities they chose particularly reflected their appeal to stop and listen . ' cage would approve ' new york-based john cage expert richard kostelanetz said he did n't think the composer would have objected to the use of his work in this way . " he lived on a very busy avenue and did n't own a record player , because he preferred to listen to the noise outside his house , " kostelanetz told deutsche welle . the cage expert added that the setting of the work is crucial to making it a work of art and that the irony is so much stronger when it is performed by renowned artists - like those involved in catm .
the audience is bound to listen even more intently , knowing what they could be hearing from those artists , if they were actually playing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the black eyed peas are number one this week taking back the charts with more than 80,000 facebook fans as of december 13 , cage against the machine may be well on its way to rocking the uk 's christmas charts . they 'll have stiff competition from black eyed peas , who top this week 's singles chart in the uk with " the time -lrb- dirty bit -rrb- " and from matt cardle , the most recent winner of the uk 's popular casting show , x factor . the media has largely focused on the cage against the machine campaign as a counterpoint to market-tailored pop ballade and , specifically , to x factor .
however , hilliard said she and her husband have nothing against the casting show , but simply are n't interested in watching it . " if you do n't like it , do n't turn it on ; if you do n't like the record , do n't buy it , " she said . and if cage against the machine has its way , christmas eve in the uk will truly be a silent night - or at least one filled with incidental noise . author : kate bowen editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de music hotel brings new beat to berlin berlin 's new music hotel , nhow , combines luxury , design and quality musical facilities .
it hopes to bridge the gap between international and local artists - but the city 's underground scene is n't easily impressed .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- young german pianist unites classical music with world of video games benyamin nuss , 21 , has been wowing audiences in some of europe 's finest concert halls with solo piano interpretations of video game music by nobuo uematsu .
he spoke to deutsche welle about this unusual project .
-lrb- 04.12.2010 -rrb- france to start carte musique digital music subsidy plan france hopes to change young shoppers ' habits by subsidizing the sale of music with a " music card . "
but the government has not yet said which online services people will be able to use to make purchases .
-lrb- 27.10.2010 -rrb- feedback what will you be listening to on christmas ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
art meet several artists who live in a small world and miniaturize their work .
the filmmaker the model builder the engraver the painter the photographer podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 10 - 1000 robota with a new take on punk subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de music -pipe- 13.12.2010 uk group hopes silence will top christmas charts großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stop and listen this christmas , says cage against the machine a uk campaign aims to rock the christmas single charts - with the sound of silence .
they 're using experimentalist composer john cage 's masterpiece of silence , 4 ' 33 " , to get people listening to the needs around them . it all started as a joke . last year , a uk campaign succeeded in its aim of preventing the winner of casting show x-factor from becoming christmas number one by encouraging people to help " killing in the name " by us band rage against the machine top the charts . this year , uk art therapy masters student dave hilliard quipped to his friends , " let 's get silence to number one . " " it was meant to be a joke , " julie hilliard , dave hilliard 's wife and co-initiator of cage against the machine -lrb- catm -rrb- , told deutsche welle .
" but it captured the imagination of so many people . " when it comes to getting silence on the charts , the avant-garde work " 4 ' 33 " by american experimental composer john cage -lrb- 1912-1992 -rrb- is the first that comes to mind .
the score calls for any combination of musicians to go on stage and play absolutely nothing for exactly four minutes and 33 seconds .
for some , an agonizing exercise in patience ; for others , ear-opening proof that escape from the unceasing aural bombardment of our multimedia society is , indeed , possible . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : john cage was fascinated by incidental sound open your ears the hilliards , along with long-time friend and music pr expert john rogers , are less interested in making a profound artistic statement and keener raising money for a few underfunded charities . starting monday , december 13 , supporters can purchase a specially recorded version of cage 's groundbreaking 1952 work , which included the participation of artists like aeroplane , billy bragg and kooks - though , of course , they ca n't really be heard . they recorded their own version to ensure that the revenue went directly to selected charities , but also because most other editions separate the work 's three movements into three tracks - but only single tracks are eligible for the single charts . revenue from the recordings and from ads on the groups website go to charities like c.a.l.m. , which provides support to young men considering suicide , the british tinnitus association , and organizations that offer music education to underprivileged children . " when you stop talking and you start to look at the world around you , you can see all these other needs that are there , besides your own , " said julie hilliard , adding that the charities they chose particularly reflected their appeal to stop and listen . ' cage would approve ' new york-based john cage expert richard kostelanetz said he did n't think the composer would have objected to the use of his work in this way . " he lived on a very busy avenue and did n't own a record player , because he preferred to listen to the noise outside his house , " kostelanetz told deutsche welle . the cage expert added that the setting of the work is crucial to making it a work of art and that the irony is so much stronger when it is performed by renowned artists - like those involved in catm .
the audience is bound to listen even more intently , knowing what they could be hearing from those artists , if they were actually playing . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the black eyed peas are number one this week taking back the charts with more than 80,000 facebook fans as of december 13 , cage against the machine may be well on its way to rocking the uk 's christmas charts . they 'll have stiff competition from black eyed peas , who top this week 's singles chart in the uk with " the time -lrb- dirty bit -rrb- " and from matt cardle , the most recent winner of the uk 's popular casting show , x factor . the media has largely focused on the cage against the machine campaign as a counterpoint to market-tailored pop ballade and , specifically , to x factor .
however , hilliard said she and her husband have nothing against the casting show , but simply are n't interested in watching it . " if you do n't like it , do n't turn it on ; if you do n't like the record , do n't buy it , " she said . and if cage against the machine has its way , christmas eve in the uk will truly be a silent night - or at least one filled with incidental noise . author : kate bowen editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de music hotel brings new beat to berlin berlin 's new music hotel , nhow , combines luxury , design and quality musical facilities .
it hopes to bridge the gap between international and local artists - but the city 's underground scene is n't easily impressed .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- young german pianist unites classical music with world of video games benyamin nuss , 21 , has been wowing audiences in some of europe 's finest concert halls with solo piano interpretations of video game music by nobuo uematsu .
he spoke to deutsche welle about this unusual project .
-lrb- 04.12.2010 -rrb- france to start carte musique digital music subsidy plan france hopes to change young shoppers ' habits by subsidizing the sale of music with a " music card . "
but the government has not yet said which online services people will be able to use to make purchases .
-lrb- 27.10.2010 -rrb- 9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press opinion : wikileaks ' latest release is a diplomatic waterloo africa -pipe- 13.12.2010 wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell gained information on all aspects of nigeria 's oil business the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria . leaked us diplomatic cables from last year , carried by a number of international newspapers and magazines , show that royal dutch shell - among the major oil producers in nigeria - have infiltrated key nigerian ministries and have been using links to us officials to gain information on rival oil companies in the country , and the movements and objectives of militants in the niger delta region .
shell 's level of penetration into the governmental structure of nigeria - one of the world 's largest oil exporters - have given the company access to politicians and decision-makers at the highest level , providing it with insider knowledge of all movements and negotiations within those ministries .
according to dr. heinz jockers , a nigeria expert and a member of the eu election observation mission to nigeria , shell has personnel in the finance , interior , national planning , defense , environment , energy and foreign affairs ministries as well as influence over a number of presidential advisers , parliamentarians , governors , and high-ranked tribal rulers .
high level infiltration in major ministeries and oil-producing states " shell operatives - although they are unofficially employed by the company - have infiltrated the majority of the most important ministries in the nigerian government , " jockers told deutsche welle .
" they will of course also have their people in the ministries of the main oil-producing states . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell used nigerian sources to help secure its interests jockers said that the main aim of the shell operatives would be to gain information on everything which could in one way or the other affect the company 's business .
" areas of interest for these people would be the position of other competitors , be it companies or countries ; their offers regarding oil deals in nigeria , the pricing scale for oil in the country , and the level of governmental support for security , " he said .
the leaked cables show that shell had obtained information that nigeria had invited bids for oil concessions from china and was concerned at the possibility of increased competition from the people 's republic .
they also show that shell executives requested confirmation from us officials on russian gas giant gazprom 's interest in nigeria after information was obtained from ministerial channels .
jockers added that the practice of infiltration was so widespread that it is highly likely that other large companies have embedded personnel in governmental offices as this was the only way that advantages in business could be gained in nigeria .
" these could include : julius berger , chevron , hochtief , siemens , peugeot , haliburton , and mercedes , " he said .
" you have to remember : nigeria is a chaotic and highly corrupt country .
to do business there , you have to play the game . "
shell contacted us officials over delta militant threat bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell wanted us help with getting information on militants ann pickard , shell 's top executive in nigeria , was also revealed to have spoken to us officials in 2008 about the threat of militants in the niger delta which had , at its peak in 2006 , shut down a quarter of nigeria 's oil output .
an amnesty in 2009 ended the acts of sabotage being carried out on vulnerable pipelines and platforms , such as shell 's soku gas facility which had been the target of militant rocket attacks at the height of the so-called oil war .
" shell had been the main target of attacks by militants since the early 1990s , " heinrich bergstresser , a nigeria expert at the german institute of global and area studies -lrb- giga -rrb- in hamburg , told deutsche welle .
" the sabotages and attacks on shell 's installations , among others , were and are executed not just by militants but also orchestrated by complicit agents within the oil companies .
they benefit from the attacks because these people are very often also in charge of managing the payment of compensation which offers the opportunity to keep certain amounts of the payment for themselves . "
the cable dispatches from 2008 showed that shell 's pickard had contacted the us consulate in lagos with an offer to share " intelligence " on militant activity in exchange for information on a shipment of surface-to-air missiles which had allegedly been destined for nigerian militant groups in the delta region .
cables hint at shell 's involvement with local godfathers the cables describe how pickard was also unconvinced that a certain governor in the delta region " lacked the connections among rivers state militant leaders to successfully coopt them as the governors in delta and bayelsa states have done with militants in their states , " and that she believed the clash between the military and militants was " a proxy war for ongoing disputes " between rival governors .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : playing both sides in the delta struggle is a dangerous game this section of the cable transcripts hints at the possibility that shell has been attempting to use its influence to control local leaders , a comlicated and dangerous practice according to heinrich bergstresser .
" shell is playing with fire if it has or had any connection with the governors and militants , " he said .
" on the one hand , the oil companies can not control the governors but on the other hand they can try to persuade them to act in favor of the companies and in their own interest .
i am sure that they are paying certain amounts to the governors but that does not guarantee anything . "
bergstresser added that very often the oil companies find themselves caught between a rock and a hard place .
" the militias have emancipated themselves from their political godfathers and have started their own business of attacks and kidnappings so the oil companies find themselves sandwiched between profit-making , being threatened by militias , and keeping very close relationships with the federal government . "
author : nick amies editor : rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de illegal arms shipments to nigeria raise stakes ahead of 2011 elections general elections in nigeria are still several months away , but tensions are rising with memories still fresh of the 2007 poll which saw widespread allegations of corruption , voter fraud and violence .
-lrb- 01.12.2010 -rrb- biafra war anniversary highlights nigeria ’ s uncertain future " biafra " was the taunt german children used for skinny kids in the late 60s - the term was synonymous with starvation .
it is now 40 years since the end of the biafra war , and nigeria 's future still hangs in the balance .
-lrb- 15.01.2010 -rrb- shell settles lawsuit over killing of nigerian activists european oil giant royal dutch shell has agreed to pay $ 15.5 million -lrb- 11.2 million euros -rrb- to the families of six nigerian activists executed in 1995 but has refused to accept any liability for the violence .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
arab world speedy sentence on monday , tunisia 's ex-president ben ali and his wife were sentenced in absentia to jail terms in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
human rights two bulgarian nurses reflect on their eight years spent falsely incarcerated in libyan jails .
watch the video podcast series lotta from finland combines her passions for gymnastics and volunteering .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 13.12.2010 hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamed does n't know who fired the bullets that hit him a visit to the two hospitals in the war-torn helmand region of afghanistan exposes the horrors that innocent civilians , so-called collateral damage caught in the crossfire , experience in modern wartime . " no weapons allowed beyond this point , " reads a sign at the entrance of boost hospital in lashkar gah , afghanistan .
such advice may be redundant elsewhere , but here at boost it is as much a declaration of principle as a regulation .
lashkar gah is the capital of helmand province - one of afghanistan 's biggest battlefields .
the region may look like a wasteland but it is still able to produce more heroin than anywhere else in the rest of the world .
in a place like this , travelling often means taking roads that may be laid with explosives , or shelled by helicopters .
it 's little wonder , then , that common health problems often become real emergencies .
no questions asked " we do not ask anyone which side they belong to , or who injured them .
our work is limited to offering free medical care to anyone who comes to the hospital , " says stefano argenziano .
he is the project coordinator for doctors without borders - known by its french acronym msf - in helmand province .
accordingly , nobody at boost speaks of " taliban terrorists ; " they use the term " government opposition " instead .
there are more than 2,000 ngos registered in kabul , but just a handful of these have a field presence .
msf is one of those rare groups .
it relies solely on private funds and , unlike many other groups , does not have paid soldiers protecting the safety of its staff .
even the usual barbed wire and sandbags are n't to be found at the camp where msf staff lodges .
" we try not to be in the same place as foreign troops .
nonetheless , our best calling card is our work , " argenziano said .
" we have earned the respect of local people because everybody knows what we are all about . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a sign tells you not to take your gun into the hospital msf resumed its work in afghanistan after an absence of five years , following the murder of five of its staff in badghis province in 2004 .
their humanitarian mission in lashkar gah , supporting boost hospital , was launched in november , 2009 .
boost is one of the two reference hospitals in the war-torn south of the country , alongside the one in kandahar .
a reference hospital is the term used by the world health organization for hospitals that accept complex cases for cutting-edge diagnosis and treatment .
ilona is a nurse who arrived in afghanistan from germany two years ago .
today , she moves gently but swiftly through the sea of blue burkhas in the female section of boost hospital .
patients from all over " many of the cases we handle deal with malnutrition in infants after drinking cow or goat milk .
their mothers are anemic and ca n't breast-feed , so the children suffer from chronic gastroenteritis because they are unable to process the animal milk , " she said .
there are also afghan nurses at boost , and assadullah - a native of the relatively peaceful northern region mazar , is one of them .
" we also treat those hospitalized for an overdose of heroin or simply the most direct victims of this war , " she said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : did the british wound - then save- ihmatullah ? -lrb- right -rrb- civilian casualties and deaths continue to increase in afghanistan , despite a commitment by nato troops to avoid them .
un figures suggest isaf troops are causing less " collateral damage " - army-speak for injured civilians - but insurgents continue to target civilians , so casualties are rising .
a un report on civilian casualties in afghanistan , released in the summer of 2010 , showed civilian deaths and injuries in the country had increased by 31 percent from a year earlier , to 3,268 . the un attributed 76 per cent of these incidents to insurgents – up from 53 per cent in 2009 .
mistaken for taliban ?
at boost , msf is primarily responsible for pediatrics and maternity .
but its not hard to find direct victims of the war as well .
take sharifullah , for instance .
a 16-year-old boy , he was shot in the stomach during the celebrations of the end of ramadan .
his older brother , abdullhaq , says he believes the wound came from british troops .
" it came from a british convoy .
the kids began to run alongside the road .
the soldiers probably took them for a gang of talibs and shot , " abdullhaq said .
he added that four months ago , four children in his village were killed the same way .
assadullah , who was briefing sharifullah on how to walk with crutches , said such cases of injury via coalition fire were " unfortunately very common " at boost .
ihmatullah , a 16-year-old shepherd from musa qala , was also possibly injured by coalition fire .
he was hit by rocket shrapnel one night while he was sleeping outdoors .
according to his father , abdulwazid , it was the british who wounded his son - then stabilized him and brought him to boost .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : six-year-old daudchan lost a leg ; his brother lost two laura mendikoa is an experienced nurse from mexico who has worked around the world , doing stints in liberia , somalia , kenya and mexico - and now helmland .
" back home life is doubtless more comfortable but it 's much more rewarding here , " she said .
mendikoa 's job one recent day was treating abdulraziq , a 13-year old from neighboring farah province who was admitted three weeks earlier after he had a life-changing encounter with an ied , or improvised explosive device .
he lost an eye and his right hand in the blast .
ieds and other tragedies sudden tragedy also changed the lives of six-year-old daudchan and his four-year-old brother , mahmadullah .
daudchan lost his leg , and his brother lost both legs .
" they were travelling with their father on a motorcycle when they had the misfortune of running over an ied , " the children 's grandfather said , holding daudchan 's bandaged stump .
" my son was luckier : he has only lost the toes of his right foot , " he added in a resigned voice .
in the building adjacent to boost hospital , an italian ngo callled emergency runs a hospital that specializes in treating the war-wounded , specializing in victims of land mines .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : doctor matteo dell 'aira was arrested and held in afghanistan at the entrance one friday , a smiling child gave his three-fingered hand to a visitor to shake .
but the child was no longer a patient - he was there to see his brother .
friday is not only a day of prayer , it 's a day to visit wounded relatives in the hospital .
the emergency hospital in lashkar gah has been in operation since 2004 , and it is the third one the milan-based ngo runs in afghanistan .
the other two are in the northern districts of panjshir and kabul , open since 1999 and 2001 respectively .
not surprisingly , the one in lashkar gah is the busiest of the three .
around 90 percent of the patients admitted are civilians - and 40 percent of those are children , according to matteo dell 'aira , the local medical coordinator .
read more on the plight of afghan civilians 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opposition blasts visit to afghanistan by defense minister and wife german defense minister karl theodor zu guttenberg is in afghanistan on an unannounced visit with his wife stephanie .
it ’ s the first time a german defense minister is being accompanied by his wife to a warzone .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- local builders risk losing out in afghanistan 's helmand province us marines and local businessmen are laying down the foundations for reconstruction in one of the taliban 's biggest strongholds in afghanistan .
but helmand is likely to remain a place where many die and a few get rich .
-lrb- 16.10.2010 -rrb- operation to remove taliban from marjah sends thousands fleeing the civilian population of marjah , a farming community in helmand , afghanistan , are fleeing ahead of a huge nato operation designed to defeat the entrenched taliban in the region and restore government control .
-lrb- 10.02.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the ngos on the ground in afghanistan can sigificantly impact the war there ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world from tierra del fuego to tijuana asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 13.12.2010 hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients back to first page back 2/2 doctors arrested , charged with plot " the hospital where we are now is witnessing the war from the other side , " he said .
dell 'aira and eight other colleagues , both italian and afghan , were arrested in april by a mixed group of afghan police and british troops .
the nine doctors were accused of participating in a plot to assassinate helmand 's governor , gulab mangal .
" the police claimed that we were handing information to the taliban and that they had even found weapons and explosives in one of our warehouses at the hospital , " the italian doctor said with a rueful smile .
" it 's a real shame what is happening here . "
the arrest came under the aegis of operation moshtarak -lrb- " together " in the afghan dari language -rrb- which was one of innumerable isaf military offensives in the region .
emergency complained that they were denied the establishment of a humanitarian corridor to evacuate the wounded from marjah , a nearby village which was heavily shelled for months .
finally , the detainees were released after nine days in jail without charges .
immediately afterward , gino strada , who founded emergency , said that the attempt to discredit his organization had failed .
he said emergency in afghanistan , especially in helmand province , was " an uncomfortable witness to what the coalition forces are doing here . "
yet more innocent victims the number of patients treated daily in the emergency hospital depends on how busy it is from day to day , said luca radaelli , one of emergency 's nurses .
" we have treated 400 patients in the past two months , but numbers can vary greatly depending on the day .
we can get 20 in one day , or just three , " he said .
after spending a day at emergency 's admission desk , the testimonies of the patients start to sound painfully familiar .
the location of the accident , and the means - gunshot , ied , mortar attack , - may change , but the victims ' profile is often recurrent : civilian , under 14 years old , with amputated limbs .
vague details , serious consequences like many others here , 15-year old shepherd ziacho still does n't know who shot off the rounds of ammunition that tore off his two legs .
" i was walking my flock in greshek -lrb- helmand -rrb- .
i remember i sat down to rest when i spotted a mine nearby .
i also saw a helicopter over me so i 'm not sure what caused the explosion , " he said .
next to him , 12-year-old mohamed listened to ziacho ´ s testimony with a blank stare .
in a low and breathy voice , he explained that he was on the roof of his house when he noticed an impact on his body .
" when they brought him here his liver was stuck onto his lungs .
it 's really a miracle that he 's still alive , " said radaelli .
bullet wounds are the most common cause of admission in this hospital , he added .
abdulwahid lost his leg in the middle of the crossfire .
" i was working in my farm when the battle began , " recalled the villager from musa qala .
" the fighting lasted between one and two hours .
in the end i felt a sharp pain in my chest and leg .
i could n't tell where the shot came from . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : abdulraziq 's meeting with an ied changed his life - and took his limb indeed it is often difficult to know just who is behind each attack in helmand province .
in addition to american and british soldiers , there are also estonians , canadians , danish , georgians and arabs from bahrain fighting in helmand .
and of course there are the taliban , or drug smugglers or , simply , road bandits .
mahmud khan , a patient at emergency , is a pashtun who had just had his right kidney removed . " i was shot when i was driving across delaram -lrb- nimroz -rrb- .
they were simply thieves who wanted my motorbike .
i wish i had given it to them from the very beginning , " he lamented .
and 12-year-old quadratullah , lying in the bed near khan , explained how he ended up in the hospital .
unfortunate house search " back in my village we spotted some people getting into an empty house .
we were most curious so we decided to see what was inside , " said quadratullah .
" i went first but i had to push the door hard because it was blocked .
then something exploded ... when i woke up here , my father told me it happened to be a warehouse where the taliban stored their weapons and explosives . "
quadratullah tells the story with the composure and the distance of somebody who has not yet had time to reflect on what has happened .
his apparent state of shock seems like a mechanism to prevent him from thinking about what kind of life awaits a kid from afghanistan who 's lost his right eye and arm , and both his legs , in a seemingly endless war .
" one has to get used to this suffering in order to survive here , but it is not easy , " said radaelli said , visibly moved .
his six-months rotation is almost over and the ngo requires its workers to rest for at least a few weeks before resuming their jobs - a well deserved oxygen break before diving again into the horror of the afghan war .
author : karlos zurutuza editor : jennifer abramsohn back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opposition blasts visit to afghanistan by defense minister and wife german defense minister karl theodor zu guttenberg is in afghanistan on an unannounced visit with his wife stephanie .
it ’ s the first time a german defense minister is being accompanied by his wife to a warzone .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- local builders risk losing out in afghanistan 's helmand province us marines and local businessmen are laying down the foundations for reconstruction in one of the taliban 's biggest strongholds in afghanistan .
but helmand is likely to remain a place where many die and a few get rich .
-lrb- 16.10.2010 -rrb- operation to remove taliban from marjah sends thousands fleeing the civilian population of marjah , a farming community in helmand , afghanistan , are fleeing ahead of a huge nato operation designed to defeat the entrenched taliban in the region and restore government control .
-lrb- 10.02.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the ngos on the ground in afghanistan can sigificantly impact the war there ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan latin america take a multimedia journey discover the region and its people news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's newest media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 13.12.2010 hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamed does n't know who fired the bullets that hit him a visit to the two hospitals in the war-torn helmand region of afghanistan exposes the horrors that innocent civilians , so-called collateral damage caught in the crossfire , experience in modern wartime . " no weapons allowed beyond this point , " reads a sign at the entrance of boost hospital in lashkar gah , afghanistan .
such advice may be redundant elsewhere , but here at boost it is as much a declaration of principle as a regulation .
lashkar gah is the capital of helmand province - one of afghanistan 's biggest battlefields .
the region may look like a wasteland but it is still able to produce more heroin than anywhere else in the rest of the world .
in a place like this , travelling often means taking roads that may be laid with explosives , or shelled by helicopters .
it 's little wonder , then , that common health problems often become real emergencies .
no questions asked " we do not ask anyone which side they belong to , or who injured them .
our work is limited to offering free medical care to anyone who comes to the hospital , " says stefano argenziano .
he is the project coordinator for doctors without borders - known by its french acronym msf - in helmand province .
accordingly , nobody at boost speaks of " taliban terrorists ; " they use the term " government opposition " instead .
there are more than 2,000 ngos registered in kabul , but just a handful of these have a field presence .
msf is one of those rare groups .
it relies solely on private funds and , unlike many other groups , does not have paid soldiers protecting the safety of its staff .
even the usual barbed wire and sandbags are n't to be found at the camp where msf staff lodges .
" we try not to be in the same place as foreign troops .
nonetheless , our best calling card is our work , " argenziano said .
" we have earned the respect of local people because everybody knows what we are all about . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a sign tells you not to take your gun into the hospital msf resumed its work in afghanistan after an absence of five years , following the murder of five of its staff in badghis province in 2004 .
their humanitarian mission in lashkar gah , supporting boost hospital , was launched in november , 2009 .
boost is one of the two reference hospitals in the war-torn south of the country , alongside the one in kandahar .
a reference hospital is the term used by the world health organization for hospitals that accept complex cases for cutting-edge diagnosis and treatment .
ilona is a nurse who arrived in afghanistan from germany two years ago .
today , she moves gently but swiftly through the sea of blue burkhas in the female section of boost hospital .
patients from all over " many of the cases we handle deal with malnutrition in infants after drinking cow or goat milk .
their mothers are anemic and ca n't breast-feed , so the children suffer from chronic gastroenteritis because they are unable to process the animal milk , " she said .
there are also afghan nurses at boost , and assadullah - a native of the relatively peaceful northern region mazar , is one of them .
" we also treat those hospitalized for an overdose of heroin or simply the most direct victims of this war , " she said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : did the british wound - then save- ihmatullah ? -lrb- right -rrb- civilian casualties and deaths continue to increase in afghanistan , despite a commitment by nato troops to avoid them .
un figures suggest isaf troops are causing less " collateral damage " - army-speak for injured civilians - but insurgents continue to target civilians , so casualties are rising .
a un report on civilian casualties in afghanistan , released in the summer of 2010 , showed civilian deaths and injuries in the country had increased by 31 percent from a year earlier , to 3,268 . the un attributed 76 per cent of these incidents to insurgents – up from 53 per cent in 2009 .
mistaken for taliban ?
at boost , msf is primarily responsible for pediatrics and maternity .
but its not hard to find direct victims of the war as well .
take sharifullah , for instance .
a 16-year-old boy , he was shot in the stomach during the celebrations of the end of ramadan .
his older brother , abdullhaq , says he believes the wound came from british troops .
" it came from a british convoy .
the kids began to run alongside the road .
the soldiers probably took them for a gang of talibs and shot , " abdullhaq said .
he added that four months ago , four children in his village were killed the same way .
assadullah , who was briefing sharifullah on how to walk with crutches , said such cases of injury via coalition fire were " unfortunately very common " at boost .
ihmatullah , a 16-year-old shepherd from musa qala , was also possibly injured by coalition fire .
he was hit by rocket shrapnel one night while he was sleeping outdoors .
according to his father , abdulwazid , it was the british who wounded his son - then stabilized him and brought him to boost .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : six-year-old daudchan lost a leg ; his brother lost two laura mendikoa is an experienced nurse from mexico who has worked around the world , doing stints in liberia , somalia , kenya and mexico - and now helmland .
" back home life is doubtless more comfortable but it 's much more rewarding here , " she said .
mendikoa 's job one recent day was treating abdulraziq , a 13-year old from neighboring farah province who was admitted three weeks earlier after he had a life-changing encounter with an ied , or improvised explosive device .
he lost an eye and his right hand in the blast .
ieds and other tragedies sudden tragedy also changed the lives of six-year-old daudchan and his four-year-old brother , mahmadullah .
daudchan lost his leg , and his brother lost both legs .
" they were travelling with their father on a motorcycle when they had the misfortune of running over an ied , " the children 's grandfather said , holding daudchan 's bandaged stump .
" my son was luckier : he has only lost the toes of his right foot , " he added in a resigned voice .
in the building adjacent to boost hospital , an italian ngo callled emergency runs a hospital that specializes in treating the war-wounded , specializing in victims of land mines .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : doctor matteo dell 'aira was arrested and held in afghanistan at the entrance one friday , a smiling child gave his three-fingered hand to a visitor to shake .
but the child was no longer a patient - he was there to see his brother .
friday is not only a day of prayer , it 's a day to visit wounded relatives in the hospital .
the emergency hospital in lashkar gah has been in operation since 2004 , and it is the third one the milan-based ngo runs in afghanistan .
the other two are in the northern districts of panjshir and kabul , open since 1999 and 2001 respectively .
not surprisingly , the one in lashkar gah is the busiest of the three .
around 90 percent of the patients admitted are civilians - and 40 percent of those are children , according to matteo dell 'aira , the local medical coordinator .
read more on the plight of afghan civilians 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opposition blasts visit to afghanistan by defense minister and wife german defense minister karl theodor zu guttenberg is in afghanistan on an unannounced visit with his wife stephanie .
it ’ s the first time a german defense minister is being accompanied by his wife to a warzone .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- local builders risk losing out in afghanistan 's helmand province us marines and local businessmen are laying down the foundations for reconstruction in one of the taliban 's biggest strongholds in afghanistan .
but helmand is likely to remain a place where many die and a few get rich .
-lrb- 16.10.2010 -rrb- operation to remove taliban from marjah sends thousands fleeing the civilian population of marjah , a farming community in helmand , afghanistan , are fleeing ahead of a huge nato operation designed to defeat the entrenched taliban in the region and restore government control .
-lrb- 10.02.2010 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
arab world speedy sentence on monday , tunisia 's ex-president ben ali and his wife were sentenced in absentia to jail terms in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
human rights two bulgarian nurses reflect on their eight years spent falsely incarcerated in libyan jails .
watch the video podcast series lotta from finland combines her passions for gymnastics and volunteering .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.12.2010 stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is another winter of discontent for stuttgart having fired jens keller after only 60 days in charge , stuttgart are rolling the dice again with bruno labbadia , formerly of leverkusen and hamburg .
but can he handle the toughest job in german football ? what do jogi loew , ralf rangnick , matthias sammer , giovanni trapattoni and christian gross have in common ?
if you said that they are all successful coaches who have been fired by stuttgart , you 'd be right .
that might be some small consolation to jens keller , who was axed on sunday after stuttgart suffered an unlucky 2-1 loss to hanover .
that defeat left only moenchengladbach between stuttgart and the very bottom of the table .
" we 're stuck deep in the muck , " stuttgart 's technical director , fredi bobic , said after the hanover disappointment .
" i 've got my thoughts about how we 're going to get out of it . "
bobic declined to elaborate on those mental processes , but stuttgart fans at least have a name and a face to pin to them .
the question is : does bruno labbadia - along with gross and keller , stuttgart 's third coach this season - stand a chance at the hardest club in the league to lead ?
plus and minuses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bruno labbadia is going to have to put his thinking cap on bobic may be counting on what might be called the “ labbadia effect . ”
at each of his previous two teams , big bruno 's charges responded well to his tactical instructions and got off to good starts .
a series of wins such as labbadia engineered at leverkusen and hamburg in 2008 and 2009 respectively would probably be enough for stuttgart , whose only goal right now is to avoid relegation .
that 's not out of the question .
stuttgart , who are currently on 12 points , have been on the losing end of a number of controversial refereeing decisions this season and could argue that their current position in the table does n't accurately reflect their quality .
on the other hand , no one would make the case that this is a good team .
the squad has been unable to compensate for the departures of sami khedira and jens lehmann , veteran star mauro camoranesi has spent more time on his tuchus than on the turf , and chemistry between younger and older players is rumored to be quite poor .
that does n't play to labbadia 's strengths .
at both leverkusen and hamburg , he was criticized for being unapproachable and arrogant , and there were unconfirmed rumors about romantic liaisons , or attempts at such , between him and players ' wives .
whatever the truth may be , both teams suffered drastic downward spirals after their hot starts with him in charge , and he departed after less than a year in charge .
now he 's sitting on a true powder keg , a team whose supporters have in the past besieged their own team bus when they 've been disappointed by results .
labbadia 's first task is to win over those fans , and one thing is clear : it ai n't gonna be easy .
the final step toward relegation ?
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stuttgart fans wish the club had n't sold mario gomez if the new coach had any illusions about what he was getting himself into , he needed only surf briefly on the internet to dispel them .
" why labbadia , " one supporter asked on the online forum of the mass circulation bild newspaper .
" he 'll be gone quicker than he can settle on a starting 11 . "
indeed , the overarching tone of the blogosphere was sarcasm .
" the best management in the league has pulled off another brilliant move and hired a much heralded coach guaranteed to bring stability and continuity to the club , " wrote a user on the football forum of die welt newspaper .
" it looks as if stuttgart have finally committed themselves to getting relegated . "
that comment was typical of many others in blaming management for the team 's current misery .
in particular , supporters are unhappy at the club 's penchant for selling stars .
along with khedira , mario gomez and kevin kuranyi are two of the prominent and popular players stuttgart have flogged off in recent years .
if labbadia does n't pan out quickly , stuttgart could be in the hunt for a dubious record - the greatest number of coaches employed by any one club in a single season .
and if bruno does have to go , the odds are that bobic and others within stuttgart 's management will be going with him .
author : jefferson chase editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hanover hit new high with win over struggling stuttgart hanover continued to surpass expectations , rising to second in the standings with a 2-1 win over beleaguered stuttgart .
now , just third from bottom , stuttgart has decided to dump its coach , jens keller .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- ex-amateur coaches at stuttgart , cologne face uphill battle in jens keller and frank schaefer respectively , stuttgart and cologne hope that an in-house promotion will turn the tide .
but former amateur coaches seldom have long-term success in the bundesliga .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- stuttgart need a reality check as gross takes the fall stuttgart packed off its third coach in three seasons when christian gross was shown the door after a woeful start to the season .
but the club 's position is unlikely to improve until deeper problems are resolved .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- feedback will labbadia succeed at stuttgart ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
bundesliga picks playing hurt it 's match day 28 in the bundesliga but dw 's tired pundits wish it was all over already ...
dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia mönchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 13.12.2010 oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eurozone states have to stop spending money they do n't have and start to cut debt the oecd urged eurozone states to start cutting down their debt loads and correct economic imbalances as soon as possible .
its chief economist gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds , calling them a " good idea " . the organization for economic co-operation and development -lrb- oecd -rrb- warned the 16 eurozone member states on monday that they need to start cutting their heavy debt loads and adopt tough measures to correct economic imbalances . the oecd also urged them to install a permanent crisis resolution mechanism which would force nations to carry out reforms in order to receive aid .
in its latest survey , the oecd predicted the eurozone 's economy would grow by 1.7 percent this year before accelerating to 2 percent in 2011 .
and although the oecd said the eurozone enjoyed a " gradual and sustained recovery " from last year 's steep recession , it also predicted that the pace of recovery would likely be muted .
eurozone states should begin to cut debts by 2011 the latest " fiscal consolidation is the immediate priority to stabilize the public finances and should begin by 2011 at the latest in all countries , " the oecd said in a statement .
oecd chief economist pier carlo padoan acknowledged that it took economists like him too long to understand the underlying reasons for the euro crisis .
" we economists have to plead guilty to that because we now discovered that while looking at -lrb- the -rrb- fiscal -lrb- situation -rrb- that needs to be looked at , we neglected other elements that now we know prove to be extremely important , " he said .
the crisis was caused by an economic imbalance , which had always existed in europe , he added .
the common currency only served to exacerbate that fact .
according to daniel gros , head of the center for european policy studies , one has to go back about 20 years to find the root of the current crisis .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms " will boost growth , said padoan " the problems we have been experiencing at the european periphery go back to german reunification .
at that time , germany experienced a construction and consumption boom which led to a rise in interest rates , while the rest of europe was moving in the opposite direction , " he said .
" beginning in 1995 , it was germany that had to watch its finances while other nations , thanks to the global credit boom , were spending more freely .
now the tables are turning again . "
the massive public debt of practically all of the oecd 's member states , is one of the main problems , said chief economist padoan .
" the first , best solution for countries is strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms to boost growth .
we think this is the way forward . "
financial markets may not grant greece enough time to implement reforms however , eurozone states appear to be moving in the right direction .
" the reforms we are currently witnessing in greece and elsewhere will take effect at some point , " said gros .
" the question we 're asking right now is whether the financial markets will give those countries the time they need to implement the reforms .
germany had enough time .
greece may possibly not . "
this is a scenario no one wants to imagine .
oecd chief economist padoan gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds .
" imagining that there is a european dimension to financial markets , including bond markets , is a good idea , " he said .
author : christoph hasselbach -lrb- db / sst / dpa / afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland bailout reignites fears about the future of the euro germany has seen a number of its own currencies come and go : the deutschmark , the reichsmark and , before that , the mark .
now some analysts are grumbling that the euro may be on its way out too .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- debt crisis exposes the euro 's flaws but divorce is not an option like marriage partners , eurozone nations fight about money .
germany grumbles about paying for the profligacy of others , but pays , since sticking together is the lesser of evils , says die zeit 's josef joffe .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- eurogroup finance ministers agree details of euro safety net eurozone finance ministers have signed off on a 500-billion-euro safety fund to stave off future crises within the single currency zone .
the announcement comes amid concerns over the strength and stability of the euro .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live europa aktuell - das magazin aus brüssel we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live world in progress tunisian families open homes and hearts to refugees from libya listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
reader response austerity avoidance as anti-austerity riots continue in debt-stricken greece , readers consider the country 's options .
drugs a french socialist candidate pushes to legalize cannabis ahead of the country 's elections .
listen to the audio russia hundreds attend the funeral of a controversial russian colonel convicted of strangling a girl .
listen to the audio health a london conference raises $ 4.3 billion to vaccinate millions of poor children .
listen to the audio europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
all i want for christmas is ... -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 22.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de christmas -pipe- 13.12.2010 all i want for christmas is ... großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children have left instructions for christmas gift-givers for over a century toothpaste may seem like an unusual item on a christmas wish list - but over a century ago , it was n't so strange .
an exhibition in dortmund unveils the touching and sometimes comical history of holiday wish lists . in some countries , christmas presents are exchanged on the morning of december 25 , while most europeans give gifts on the evening of the 24th .
no matter when they 're unwrapped , it 's hard to imagine christmas without presents . the tradition , however , is relatively new .
it was n't until the end of the 19th century that gift-giving was associated with christmas in germany .
before that , st. nicholas brought presents to well-behaved children on december 6 . with the advent of gifts , it was only inevitable that children would help the givers - real and imagined - out with wish lists . " the development of the christmas gift-giving tradition mainly had to do with the fact that more presents and toys were available as a result of industrialization , " historian isolde parussel told deutsche welle . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a christmas gift table may have looked like this in the 19th century of course , not everyone could afford the new toys , but that did n't keep children from writing out their wishes . old toys made just like new parussel is behind the exhibition " … bring us many nice things , " which is currently on show at the museum of art and cultural history in the western german city of dortmund .
over 100 holiday wish lists are on display , along with decorative gift tables , toys and festive christmas trees from the past century . most of the items were collected from private households following a request published in german newspapers . some of the wish lists are addressed to st. nicholas or santa claus , but many were written to the ' christkind ' - a sprite-like child , usually depicted with blond hair and angelic wings . in one list from 1899 , a young girl hoped for " a dress for -lsb- my doll -rsb- fraenzchen , a set of colored pencils , a sailor 's hat for me " but also " calling cards and a tube of calodont tooth paste . "
at the end of the 19th century , tooth paste in tubes was extremely modern - something extraordinary even for a little girl . as the end of the girl 's letter reveals , gifts were n't necessarily expected to be new .
" and then , dear christkind , -lsb- my dolls -rsb- siegfried and dori need to be taken to the hospital .
dori 's hair is growing very sparsely on her head and her limbs are very droopy .
both of these things need to be fixed , " wrote the girl . despite having to organize presents for so many children , the christkind occasionally found time to write back .
one such letter - composed on a typewriter and dated christmas eve , 1911 - is included in the exhibition ; parussel suspects , of course , that it was written by the parents .
" the angels say that you and -lsb- your sister -rsb- staenzerl were n't very good doll mothers this year , " read the letter : " under these circumstances , entrusting you with a real baby seems to be too much of a responsibility . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : isolde parussel curated the dortmund exhibition apparently , the girls had wished for a sibling - a gift their parents apparently were n't yet willing to provide . some things do n't change the letters and lists offer insights into the everyday lives of various generations .
children from the post-world war ii generation wanted nothing more than a warm hat or a notebook for school .
one short generation later , one girl asked for a knee-length skirt , according to the trend of the time . the most recent wish list in the collection is from 2008 .
jascha from dortmund had cut out pictures from catalogues - complete with price tags - to illustrate his list , which mainly consisted of electronics . jascha 's wishes are expensive , but , when taking the standard of living into account , they 're not necessarily more valuable than the things children asked for a century ago , said parussel . " you ca n't necessarily say that this child is just focused on consumption , " she said .
he put just as much effort into his wish list , writing it neatly and decorating it with colored pencils . " author : sola huelsewig -lrb- kjb -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de toys r ' scarce in german stores toy makers and retailers in germany could n't be happier : christmas shoppers appear to have a near insatiable appetite for toys .
products from traditional european toymakers like lego and playmobil are in high demand .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- racism controversy dampens holland 's sinterklaas tradition children across europe eagerly await the arrival of st. nicholas on december 6 .
but in holland , the tradition has racist implications that the dutch are n't quite willing to give up .
-lrb- 05.12.2010 -rrb- ' dear christkind ' : a german post office answers christmas letters in the small town of engelskirchen , thousands of letters from around the world arrive at a seasonal christmas post office , all addressed to one person .
for over 20 years , postal workers have written back .
-lrb- 24.12.2009 -rrb- 9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 13 - get back to basics with the singer-songwriter rock of the alin coen band subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
all i want for christmas is ... -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 26.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de christmas -pipe- 13.12.2010 all i want for christmas is ... großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children have left instructions for christmas gift-givers for over a century toothpaste may seem like an unusual item on a christmas wish list - but over a century ago , it was n't so strange .
an exhibition in dortmund unveils the touching and sometimes comical history of holiday wish lists . in some countries , christmas presents are exchanged on the morning of december 25 , while most europeans give gifts on the evening of the 24th .
no matter when they 're unwrapped , it 's hard to imagine christmas without presents . the tradition , however , is relatively new .
it was n't until the end of the 19th century that gift-giving was associated with christmas in germany .
before that , st. nicholas brought presents to well-behaved children on december 6 . with the advent of gifts , it was only inevitable that children would help the givers - real and imagined - out with wish lists . " the development of the christmas gift-giving tradition mainly had to do with the fact that more presents and toys were available as a result of industrialization , " historian isolde parussel told deutsche welle . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a christmas gift table may have looked like this in the 19th century of course , not everyone could afford the new toys , but that did n't keep children from writing out their wishes . old toys made just like new parussel is behind the exhibition " … bring us many nice things , " which is currently on show at the museum of art and cultural history in the western german city of dortmund .
over 100 holiday wish lists are on display , along with decorative gift tables , toys and festive christmas trees from the past century . most of the items were collected from private households following a request published in german newspapers . some of the wish lists are addressed to st. nicholas or santa claus , but many were written to the ' christkind ' - a sprite-like child , usually depicted with blond hair and angelic wings . in one list from 1899 , a young girl hoped for " a dress for -lsb- my doll -rsb- fraenzchen , a set of colored pencils , a sailor 's hat for me " but also " calling cards and a tube of calodont tooth paste . "
at the end of the 19th century , tooth paste in tubes was extremely modern - something extraordinary even for a little girl . as the end of the girl 's letter reveals , gifts were n't necessarily expected to be new .
" and then , dear christkind , -lsb- my dolls -rsb- siegfried and dori need to be taken to the hospital .
dori 's hair is growing very sparsely on her head and her limbs are very droopy .
both of these things need to be fixed , " wrote the girl . despite having to organize presents for so many children , the christkind occasionally found time to write back .
one such letter - composed on a typewriter and dated christmas eve , 1911 - is included in the exhibition ; parussel suspects , of course , that it was written by the parents .
" the angels say that you and -lsb- your sister -rsb- staenzerl were n't very good doll mothers this year , " read the letter : " under these circumstances , entrusting you with a real baby seems to be too much of a responsibility . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : isolde parussel curated the dortmund exhibition apparently , the girls had wished for a sibling - a gift their parents apparently were n't yet willing to provide . some things do n't change the letters and lists offer insights into the everyday lives of various generations .
children from the post-world war ii generation wanted nothing more than a warm hat or a notebook for school .
one short generation later , one girl asked for a knee-length skirt , according to the trend of the time . the most recent wish list in the collection is from 2008 .
jascha from dortmund had cut out pictures from catalogues - complete with price tags - to illustrate his list , which mainly consisted of electronics . jascha 's wishes are expensive , but , when taking the standard of living into account , they 're not necessarily more valuable than the things children asked for a century ago , said parussel . " you ca n't necessarily say that this child is just focused on consumption , " she said .
he put just as much effort into his wish list , writing it neatly and decorating it with colored pencils . " author : sola huelsewig -lrb- kjb -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de toys r ' scarce in german stores toy makers and retailers in germany could n't be happier : christmas shoppers appear to have a near insatiable appetite for toys .
products from traditional european toymakers like lego and playmobil are in high demand .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- racism controversy dampens holland 's sinterklaas tradition children across europe eagerly await the arrival of st. nicholas on december 6 .
but in holland , the tradition has racist implications that the dutch are n't quite willing to give up .
-lrb- 05.12.2010 -rrb- ' dear christkind ' : a german post office answers christmas letters in the small town of engelskirchen , thousands of letters from around the world arrive at a seasonal christmas post office , all addressed to one person .
for over 20 years , postal workers have written back .
-lrb- 24.12.2009 -rrb- feedback do you have a special christmas tradition in your family ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 clip no. 8 - johannes stankowski clip no. 9 - the bonny situation subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven news quiz test your knowledge with the news quiz ! © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.12.2010 stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is another winter of discontent for stuttgart having fired jens keller after only 60 days in charge , stuttgart are rolling the dice again with bruno labbadia , formerly of leverkusen and hamburg .
but can he handle the toughest job in german football ? what do jogi loew , ralf rangnick , matthias sammer , giovanni trapattoni and christian gross have in common ?
if you said that they are all successful coaches who have been fired by stuttgart , you 'd be right .
that might be some small consolation to jens keller , who was axed on sunday after stuttgart suffered an unlucky 2-1 loss to hanover .
that defeat left only moenchengladbach between stuttgart and the very bottom of the table .
" we 're stuck deep in the muck , " stuttgart 's technical director , fredi bobic , said after the hanover disappointment .
" i 've got my thoughts about how we 're going to get out of it . "
bobic declined to elaborate on those mental processes , but stuttgart fans at least have a name and a face to pin to them .
the question is : does bruno labbadia - along with gross and keller , stuttgart 's third coach this season - stand a chance at the hardest club in the league to lead ?
plus and minuses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bruno labbadia is going to have to put his thinking cap on bobic may be counting on what might be called the “ labbadia effect . ”
at each of his previous two teams , big bruno 's charges responded well to his tactical instructions and got off to good starts .
a series of wins such as labbadia engineered at leverkusen and hamburg in 2008 and 2009 respectively would probably be enough for stuttgart , whose only goal right now is to avoid relegation .
that 's not out of the question .
stuttgart , who are currently on 12 points , have been on the losing end of a number of controversial refereeing decisions this season and could argue that their current position in the table does n't accurately reflect their quality .
on the other hand , no one would make the case that this is a good team .
the squad has been unable to compensate for the departures of sami khedira and jens lehmann , veteran star mauro camoranesi has spent more time on his tuchus than on the turf , and chemistry between younger and older players is rumored to be quite poor .
that does n't play to labbadia 's strengths .
at both leverkusen and hamburg , he was criticized for being unapproachable and arrogant , and there were unconfirmed rumors about romantic liaisons , or attempts at such , between him and players ' wives .
whatever the truth may be , both teams suffered drastic downward spirals after their hot starts with him in charge , and he departed after less than a year in charge .
now he 's sitting on a true powder keg , a team whose supporters have in the past besieged their own team bus when they 've been disappointed by results .
labbadia 's first task is to win over those fans , and one thing is clear : it ai n't gonna be easy .
the final step toward relegation ?
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stuttgart fans wish the club had n't sold mario gomez if the new coach had any illusions about what he was getting himself into , he needed only surf briefly on the internet to dispel them .
" why labbadia , " one supporter asked on the online forum of the mass circulation bild newspaper .
" he 'll be gone quicker than he can settle on a starting 11 . "
indeed , the overarching tone of the blogosphere was sarcasm .
" the best management in the league has pulled off another brilliant move and hired a much heralded coach guaranteed to bring stability and continuity to the club , " wrote a user on the football forum of die welt newspaper .
" it looks as if stuttgart have finally committed themselves to getting relegated . "
that comment was typical of many others in blaming management for the team 's current misery .
in particular , supporters are unhappy at the club 's penchant for selling stars .
along with khedira , mario gomez and kevin kuranyi are two of the prominent and popular players stuttgart have flogged off in recent years .
if labbadia does n't pan out quickly , stuttgart could be in the hunt for a dubious record - the greatest number of coaches employed by any one club in a single season .
and if bruno does have to go , the odds are that bobic and others within stuttgart 's management will be going with him .
author : jefferson chase editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hanover hit new high with win over struggling stuttgart hanover continued to surpass expectations , rising to second in the standings with a 2-1 win over beleaguered stuttgart .
now , just third from bottom , stuttgart has decided to dump its coach , jens keller .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- ex-amateur coaches at stuttgart , cologne face uphill battle in jens keller and frank schaefer respectively , stuttgart and cologne hope that an in-house promotion will turn the tide .
but former amateur coaches seldom have long-term success in the bundesliga .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- stuttgart need a reality check as gross takes the fall stuttgart packed off its third coach in three seasons when christian gross was shown the door after a woeful start to the season .
but the club 's position is unlikely to improve until deeper problems are resolved .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- 9800 dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-radio listen to the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report world cup brazil 's hopes for winning this summer 's world cup depend on five-time player of the year marta .
watch the video anti-racism girls wanted : scouting for germany 's next generation of female football talent listen to the audio final standings click here for the final 2010-11 bundesliga table. video women 's soccer is more popular than ever in the us .
watch the video © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 13.12.2010 hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients 1/2 ahead großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mohamed does n't know who fired the bullets that hit him a visit to the two hospitals in the war-torn helmand region of afghanistan exposes the horrors that innocent civilians , so-called collateral damage caught in the crossfire , experience in modern wartime . " no weapons allowed beyond this point , " reads a sign at the entrance of boost hospital in lashkar gah , afghanistan .
such advice may be redundant elsewhere , but here at boost it is as much a declaration of principle as a regulation .
lashkar gah is the capital of helmand province - one of afghanistan 's biggest battlefields .
the region may look like a wasteland but it is still able to produce more heroin than anywhere else in the rest of the world .
in a place like this , travelling often means taking roads that may be laid with explosives , or shelled by helicopters .
it 's little wonder , then , that common health problems often become real emergencies .
no questions asked " we do not ask anyone which side they belong to , or who injured them .
our work is limited to offering free medical care to anyone who comes to the hospital , " says stefano argenziano .
he is the project coordinator for doctors without borders - known by its french acronym msf - in helmand province .
accordingly , nobody at boost speaks of " taliban terrorists ; " they use the term " government opposition " instead .
there are more than 2,000 ngos registered in kabul , but just a handful of these have a field presence .
msf is one of those rare groups .
it relies solely on private funds and , unlike many other groups , does not have paid soldiers protecting the safety of its staff .
even the usual barbed wire and sandbags are n't to be found at the camp where msf staff lodges .
" we try not to be in the same place as foreign troops .
nonetheless , our best calling card is our work , " argenziano said .
" we have earned the respect of local people because everybody knows what we are all about . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a sign tells you not to take your gun into the hospital msf resumed its work in afghanistan after an absence of five years , following the murder of five of its staff in badghis province in 2004 .
their humanitarian mission in lashkar gah , supporting boost hospital , was launched in november , 2009 .
boost is one of the two reference hospitals in the war-torn south of the country , alongside the one in kandahar .
a reference hospital is the term used by the world health organization for hospitals that accept complex cases for cutting-edge diagnosis and treatment .
ilona is a nurse who arrived in afghanistan from germany two years ago .
today , she moves gently but swiftly through the sea of blue burkhas in the female section of boost hospital .
patients from all over " many of the cases we handle deal with malnutrition in infants after drinking cow or goat milk .
their mothers are anemic and ca n't breast-feed , so the children suffer from chronic gastroenteritis because they are unable to process the animal milk , " she said .
there are also afghan nurses at boost , and assadullah - a native of the relatively peaceful northern region mazar , is one of them .
" we also treat those hospitalized for an overdose of heroin or simply the most direct victims of this war , " she said .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : did the british wound - then save- ihmatullah ? -lrb- right -rrb- civilian casualties and deaths continue to increase in afghanistan , despite a commitment by nato troops to avoid them .
un figures suggest isaf troops are causing less " collateral damage " - army-speak for injured civilians - but insurgents continue to target civilians , so casualties are rising .
a un report on civilian casualties in afghanistan , released in the summer of 2010 , showed civilian deaths and injuries in the country had increased by 31 percent from a year earlier , to 3,268 . the un attributed 76 per cent of these incidents to insurgents – up from 53 per cent in 2009 .
mistaken for taliban ?
at boost , msf is primarily responsible for pediatrics and maternity .
but its not hard to find direct victims of the war as well .
take sharifullah , for instance .
a 16-year-old boy , he was shot in the stomach during the celebrations of the end of ramadan .
his older brother , abdullhaq , says he believes the wound came from british troops .
" it came from a british convoy .
the kids began to run alongside the road .
the soldiers probably took them for a gang of talibs and shot , " abdullhaq said .
he added that four months ago , four children in his village were killed the same way .
assadullah , who was briefing sharifullah on how to walk with crutches , said such cases of injury via coalition fire were " unfortunately very common " at boost .
ihmatullah , a 16-year-old shepherd from musa qala , was also possibly injured by coalition fire .
he was hit by rocket shrapnel one night while he was sleeping outdoors .
according to his father , abdulwazid , it was the british who wounded his son - then stabilized him and brought him to boost .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : six-year-old daudchan lost a leg ; his brother lost two laura mendikoa is an experienced nurse from mexico who has worked around the world , doing stints in liberia , somalia , kenya and mexico - and now helmland .
" back home life is doubtless more comfortable but it 's much more rewarding here , " she said .
mendikoa 's job one recent day was treating abdulraziq , a 13-year old from neighboring farah province who was admitted three weeks earlier after he had a life-changing encounter with an ied , or improvised explosive device .
he lost an eye and his right hand in the blast .
ieds and other tragedies sudden tragedy also changed the lives of six-year-old daudchan and his four-year-old brother , mahmadullah .
daudchan lost his leg , and his brother lost both legs .
" they were travelling with their father on a motorcycle when they had the misfortune of running over an ied , " the children 's grandfather said , holding daudchan 's bandaged stump .
" my son was luckier : he has only lost the toes of his right foot , " he added in a resigned voice .
in the building adjacent to boost hospital , an italian ngo callled emergency runs a hospital that specializes in treating the war-wounded , specializing in victims of land mines .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : doctor matteo dell 'aira was arrested and held in afghanistan at the entrance one friday , a smiling child gave his three-fingered hand to a visitor to shake .
but the child was no longer a patient - he was there to see his brother .
friday is not only a day of prayer , it 's a day to visit wounded relatives in the hospital .
the emergency hospital in lashkar gah has been in operation since 2004 , and it is the third one the milan-based ngo runs in afghanistan .
the other two are in the northern districts of panjshir and kabul , open since 1999 and 2001 respectively .
not surprisingly , the one in lashkar gah is the busiest of the three .
around 90 percent of the patients admitted are civilians - and 40 percent of those are children , according to matteo dell 'aira , the local medical coordinator .
read more on the plight of afghan civilians 1/2 ahead send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opposition blasts visit to afghanistan by defense minister and wife german defense minister karl theodor zu guttenberg is in afghanistan on an unannounced visit with his wife stephanie .
it ’ s the first time a german defense minister is being accompanied by his wife to a warzone .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- local builders risk losing out in afghanistan 's helmand province us marines and local businessmen are laying down the foundations for reconstruction in one of the taliban 's biggest strongholds in afghanistan .
but helmand is likely to remain a place where many die and a few get rich .
-lrb- 16.10.2010 -rrb- operation to remove taliban from marjah sends thousands fleeing the civilian population of marjah , a farming community in helmand , afghanistan , are fleeing ahead of a huge nato operation designed to defeat the entrenched taliban in the region and restore government control .
-lrb- 10.02.2010 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
arab world speedy sentence on monday , tunisia 's ex-president ben ali and his wife were sentenced in absentia to jail terms in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
human rights two bulgarian nurses reflect on their eight years spent falsely incarcerated in libyan jails .
watch the video podcast series lotta from finland combines her passions for gymnastics and volunteering .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 24.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 13.12.2010 hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients back to first page back 2/2 doctors arrested , charged with plot " the hospital where we are now is witnessing the war from the other side , " he said .
dell 'aira and eight other colleagues , both italian and afghan , were arrested in april by a mixed group of afghan police and british troops .
the nine doctors were accused of participating in a plot to assassinate helmand 's governor , gulab mangal .
" the police claimed that we were handing information to the taliban and that they had even found weapons and explosives in one of our warehouses at the hospital , " the italian doctor said with a rueful smile .
" it 's a real shame what is happening here . "
the arrest came under the aegis of operation moshtarak -lrb- " together " in the afghan dari language -rrb- which was one of innumerable isaf military offensives in the region .
emergency complained that they were denied the establishment of a humanitarian corridor to evacuate the wounded from marjah , a nearby village which was heavily shelled for months .
finally , the detainees were released after nine days in jail without charges .
immediately afterward , gino strada , who founded emergency , said that the attempt to discredit his organization had failed .
he said emergency in afghanistan , especially in helmand province , was " an uncomfortable witness to what the coalition forces are doing here . "
yet more innocent victims the number of patients treated daily in the emergency hospital depends on how busy it is from day to day , said luca radaelli , one of emergency 's nurses .
" we have treated 400 patients in the past two months , but numbers can vary greatly depending on the day .
we can get 20 in one day , or just three , " he said .
after spending a day at emergency 's admission desk , the testimonies of the patients start to sound painfully familiar .
the location of the accident , and the means - gunshot , ied , mortar attack , - may change , but the victims ' profile is often recurrent : civilian , under 14 years old , with amputated limbs .
vague details , serious consequences like many others here , 15-year old shepherd ziacho still does n't know who shot off the rounds of ammunition that tore off his two legs .
" i was walking my flock in greshek -lrb- helmand -rrb- .
i remember i sat down to rest when i spotted a mine nearby .
i also saw a helicopter over me so i 'm not sure what caused the explosion , " he said .
next to him , 12-year-old mohamed listened to ziacho ´ s testimony with a blank stare .
in a low and breathy voice , he explained that he was on the roof of his house when he noticed an impact on his body .
" when they brought him here his liver was stuck onto his lungs .
it 's really a miracle that he 's still alive , " said radaelli .
bullet wounds are the most common cause of admission in this hospital , he added .
abdulwahid lost his leg in the middle of the crossfire .
" i was working in my farm when the battle began , " recalled the villager from musa qala .
" the fighting lasted between one and two hours .
in the end i felt a sharp pain in my chest and leg .
i could n't tell where the shot came from . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : abdulraziq 's meeting with an ied changed his life - and took his limb indeed it is often difficult to know just who is behind each attack in helmand province .
in addition to american and british soldiers , there are also estonians , canadians , danish , georgians and arabs from bahrain fighting in helmand .
and of course there are the taliban , or drug smugglers or , simply , road bandits .
mahmud khan , a patient at emergency , is a pashtun who had just had his right kidney removed . " i was shot when i was driving across delaram -lrb- nimroz -rrb- .
they were simply thieves who wanted my motorbike .
i wish i had given it to them from the very beginning , " he lamented .
and 12-year-old quadratullah , lying in the bed near khan , explained how he ended up in the hospital .
unfortunate house search " back in my village we spotted some people getting into an empty house .
we were most curious so we decided to see what was inside , " said quadratullah .
" i went first but i had to push the door hard because it was blocked .
then something exploded ... when i woke up here , my father told me it happened to be a warehouse where the taliban stored their weapons and explosives . "
quadratullah tells the story with the composure and the distance of somebody who has not yet had time to reflect on what has happened .
his apparent state of shock seems like a mechanism to prevent him from thinking about what kind of life awaits a kid from afghanistan who 's lost his right eye and arm , and both his legs , in a seemingly endless war .
" one has to get used to this suffering in order to survive here , but it is not easy , " said radaelli said , visibly moved .
his six-months rotation is almost over and the ngo requires its workers to rest for at least a few weeks before resuming their jobs - a well deserved oxygen break before diving again into the horror of the afghan war .
author : karlos zurutuza editor : jennifer abramsohn back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opposition blasts visit to afghanistan by defense minister and wife german defense minister karl theodor zu guttenberg is in afghanistan on an unannounced visit with his wife stephanie .
it ’ s the first time a german defense minister is being accompanied by his wife to a warzone .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- local builders risk losing out in afghanistan 's helmand province us marines and local businessmen are laying down the foundations for reconstruction in one of the taliban 's biggest strongholds in afghanistan .
but helmand is likely to remain a place where many die and a few get rich .
-lrb- 16.10.2010 -rrb- operation to remove taliban from marjah sends thousands fleeing the civilian population of marjah , a farming community in helmand , afghanistan , are fleeing ahead of a huge nato operation designed to defeat the entrenched taliban in the region and restore government control .
-lrb- 10.02.2010 -rrb- 9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
arab world speedy sentence on monday , tunisia 's ex-president ben ali and his wife were sentenced in absentia to jail terms in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
human rights two bulgarian nurses reflect on their eight years spent falsely incarcerated in libyan jails .
watch the video podcast series lotta from finland combines her passions for gymnastics and volunteering .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.04.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de afghanistan -pipe- 13.12.2010 hospitals in helmand hot zone treat more ' collateral ' patients back to first page back 2/2 doctors arrested , charged with plot " the hospital where we are now is witnessing the war from the other side , " he said .
dell 'aira and eight other colleagues , both italian and afghan , were arrested in april by a mixed group of afghan police and british troops .
the nine doctors were accused of participating in a plot to assassinate helmand 's governor , gulab mangal .
" the police claimed that we were handing information to the taliban and that they had even found weapons and explosives in one of our warehouses at the hospital , " the italian doctor said with a rueful smile .
" it 's a real shame what is happening here . "
the arrest came under the aegis of operation moshtarak -lrb- " together " in the afghan dari language -rrb- which was one of innumerable isaf military offensives in the region .
emergency complained that they were denied the establishment of a humanitarian corridor to evacuate the wounded from marjah , a nearby village which was heavily shelled for months .
finally , the detainees were released after nine days in jail without charges .
immediately afterward , gino strada , who founded emergency , said that the attempt to discredit his organization had failed .
he said emergency in afghanistan , especially in helmand province , was " an uncomfortable witness to what the coalition forces are doing here . "
yet more innocent victims the number of patients treated daily in the emergency hospital depends on how busy it is from day to day , said luca radaelli , one of emergency 's nurses .
" we have treated 400 patients in the past two months , but numbers can vary greatly depending on the day .
we can get 20 in one day , or just three , " he said .
after spending a day at emergency 's admission desk , the testimonies of the patients start to sound painfully familiar .
the location of the accident , and the means - gunshot , ied , mortar attack , - may change , but the victims ' profile is often recurrent : civilian , under 14 years old , with amputated limbs .
vague details , serious consequences like many others here , 15-year old shepherd ziacho still does n't know who shot off the rounds of ammunition that tore off his two legs .
" i was walking my flock in greshek -lrb- helmand -rrb- .
i remember i sat down to rest when i spotted a mine nearby .
i also saw a helicopter over me so i 'm not sure what caused the explosion , " he said .
next to him , 12-year-old mohamed listened to ziacho ´ s testimony with a blank stare .
in a low and breathy voice , he explained that he was on the roof of his house when he noticed an impact on his body .
" when they brought him here his liver was stuck onto his lungs .
it 's really a miracle that he 's still alive , " said radaelli .
bullet wounds are the most common cause of admission in this hospital , he added .
abdulwahid lost his leg in the middle of the crossfire .
" i was working in my farm when the battle began , " recalled the villager from musa qala .
" the fighting lasted between one and two hours .
in the end i felt a sharp pain in my chest and leg .
i could n't tell where the shot came from . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : abdulraziq 's meeting with an ied changed his life - and took his limb indeed it is often difficult to know just who is behind each attack in helmand province .
in addition to american and british soldiers , there are also estonians , canadians , danish , georgians and arabs from bahrain fighting in helmand .
and of course there are the taliban , or drug smugglers or , simply , road bandits .
mahmud khan , a patient at emergency , is a pashtun who had just had his right kidney removed . " i was shot when i was driving across delaram -lrb- nimroz -rrb- .
they were simply thieves who wanted my motorbike .
i wish i had given it to them from the very beginning , " he lamented .
and 12-year-old quadratullah , lying in the bed near khan , explained how he ended up in the hospital .
unfortunate house search " back in my village we spotted some people getting into an empty house .
we were most curious so we decided to see what was inside , " said quadratullah .
" i went first but i had to push the door hard because it was blocked .
then something exploded ... when i woke up here , my father told me it happened to be a warehouse where the taliban stored their weapons and explosives . "
quadratullah tells the story with the composure and the distance of somebody who has not yet had time to reflect on what has happened .
his apparent state of shock seems like a mechanism to prevent him from thinking about what kind of life awaits a kid from afghanistan who 's lost his right eye and arm , and both his legs , in a seemingly endless war .
" one has to get used to this suffering in order to survive here , but it is not easy , " said radaelli said , visibly moved .
his six-months rotation is almost over and the ngo requires its workers to rest for at least a few weeks before resuming their jobs - a well deserved oxygen break before diving again into the horror of the afghan war .
author : karlos zurutuza editor : jennifer abramsohn back to first page back 2/2 send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de opposition blasts visit to afghanistan by defense minister and wife german defense minister karl theodor zu guttenberg is in afghanistan on an unannounced visit with his wife stephanie .
it ’ s the first time a german defense minister is being accompanied by his wife to a warzone .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- local builders risk losing out in afghanistan 's helmand province us marines and local businessmen are laying down the foundations for reconstruction in one of the taliban 's biggest strongholds in afghanistan .
but helmand is likely to remain a place where many die and a few get rich .
-lrb- 16.10.2010 -rrb- operation to remove taliban from marjah sends thousands fleeing the civilian population of marjah , a farming community in helmand , afghanistan , are fleeing ahead of a huge nato operation designed to defeat the entrenched taliban in the region and restore government control .
-lrb- 10.02.2010 -rrb- feedback do you think the ngos on the ground in afghanistan can sigificantly impact the war there ?
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
caucasus violence explodes in the republic of dagestan amid militants ' efforts to create a muslim nation .
listen to the report .
bundles of booty where do dictators stash their cash ?
asset trackers use ' ladders ' to follow the money .
listen to the report .
transatlantic voices germany 's gremlins berlin needs an overdue debate on what the responsibility to protect means for germany and europe .
international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 23.06.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : online vigilantes have taken to their keyboards following the arrest in the netherlands of two teenagers involved in last week 's distributed denial of service attacks against mastercard , lawyers tell young hackers to be aware of the law . on saturday , a second dutch teenager , 19 , was arrested for having been part of a cyberattack that targeted the dutch public prosecutor 's website .
the prosecutor 's site became a target after the dutch prosecutor arrested another dutch teenager , 16 , who had joined an online " hacktivist " attack in the name of wikileaks .
this is just the latest in a series of attacks against perceived enemies of wikileaks largely by a group of its supporters , a shadowy online vigilante group that calls itself anonymous .
" any individual , organization , corporation , and / or government entity which supports freedom of speech and a free internet is an ally of anonymous , " the organization said on its website . " if you work to suppress freedom of expression and a free internet your efforts will be halted . "
the group is more like a semi-controlled herd rather than a traditional heirarchical organization - it does not have clear leadership or direction .
previously , it targeted the church of scientology and the website of the recording industry association of america .
but now that some have been caught for their alleged crimes , it may serve as a legal warning shot to those who feel that they can hide in this hacktivist huddle .
misused technology this time around , in response to the wikileaks case , anonymous followers have been using a computer application known as low orbit ion canon -lrb- loic -rrb- .
using this software , these hacktivists , managed to temporarily disable a number of major financial companý websites , including mastercard 's .
the software used in the attacks was originally designed to help protect websites by testing their penetrability , but when pointed at an unsuspecting site it has the reverse effect .
when used en masse , it is a crude but simple way to create a ddos , or distributed denial of service attack , which floods websites with high level of artificial traffic , making them temporarily slow or more often , unusable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wikileaks founder julian assange , has neither condoned nor condemned the denial of service attacks eddy willems , the spokesperson for tthe european expert group for it security told deutsche welle that there is n't much to the application , which he describes as a " pretty screen " with some buttons to press .
yet the flood module , which crafts packets to send to the target to deal with , can be quite debilitating .
" when you get enough people doing this , " he said , " something has to give .
in this case it 's the targets ' websites . "
the war is not over if anonymous is to be believed , they will keep on bringing these kinds of online attacks as long as there are enough wikileaks supporters on board to bring it about .
as far as they are concerned , it is a matter of principle .
but legal experts are now warning hot-blooded young activists to be aware of where their principle might land them , for to use loic to launch an attack is to misuse it , and that can have very serious consequences .
" users are putting themselves at risk , " willems continued .
" they are not real cyber criminals and they do n't realize that they could be sent to prison for this kind of thing . "
this is the same type of attack that was used against estonia in 2007 , although the estonian one did not involve the use of a software application , but rather through more organized botnets .
estonian government officials suspected that the russian government was somehow involved in attacking estonian financial and political websites , but in the end , only one estonian citizen was punished , who had to pay a relatively small fine .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mastercard was one of the hacktivists ' targets in some cases , finding users is not difficult as was the case of the 19-year-old dutch teenager who was arrested on saturday - as he had neglected to mask his ip address , making it relatively simple for law enforcement to find him .
depending on the protective measures users take , its perpetrators can be easily traced within the space of a day or even just a couple of hours , something which begs the question as to why anonymous has chosen the approach it has .
one suggestion is that the loic application is easy to come by and easy to use , while another is simply that hacktivists are naive .
risky business while the first dutch teenager was released , the younger boy remains in detention over what a spokesman for the dutch prosecutors described as potentially more serious violations .
some observers believe the two boys will be among a handful likely to be singled out and held up as a deterrent to more ddos attacks of this nature .
however , izaz ali , a british attorney specializing in internet law , told deutsche welle that in the case of britain there could be more wide-spread arrests .
" we 're talking here about the computer misuse act , " he said .
" the government will be forcing the police to look into this . "
using loic in a similar fashion may also violate similar statutes in germany and the netherlands .
damage limitation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future for blue-eyed hackers ?
contrary to some reports , ali says it is not illegal to download the software , as long as it is not used for anything other than it was originally intended .
" it is no different from using microsoft word to write something that causes damage to someone else , a computer virus for example . "
damage is the main issue here - if these attacks were simply a case of tit-for-tat that did not affect the possibility to legitimately use affected sites , the lawyer says it would be a different story .
in other words , ali advocates actual old-fashioned street protests to protest their cause in time-honored style .
" do it the old way , " he said , adding that these kinds of modern cyber attacks are harmful to people who might even share the same views .
" they see they are showing people that the leaks are a good thing , but they are going to cause problems for a lot of people , and this is a bad thing . "
reporter : tamsin walker editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- dutch police arrest hacker over alleged cyber attacks hackers have been waging cyber war on the websites of opponents of wikileaks , saying they 're fighting for a " free and open " internet .
dutch police have arrested a teenager accused of taking part in the attacks .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts contrary to oft-stated claims , the wikileaks cables show no huge credibility gap between official us policies and what diplomats write in confidential cables , say experts .
that doesn ’ t hold true for some other countries .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- australia offers support to wikileaks founder , operation payback begins canberra announced it will offer consular support to wikileaks founder julian assange who 's being held in britain .
meanwhile , hackers shut down the web sites of companies that cut business ties with wikileaks .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- 9800 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 27.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.12.2010 stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is another winter of discontent for stuttgart having fired jens keller after only 60 days in charge , stuttgart are rolling the dice again with bruno labbadia , formerly of leverkusen and hamburg .
but can he handle the toughest job in german football ? what do jogi loew , ralf rangnick , matthias sammer , giovanni trapattoni and christian gross have in common ?
if you said that they are all successful coaches who have been fired by stuttgart , you 'd be right .
that might be some small consolation to jens keller , who was axed on sunday after stuttgart suffered an unlucky 2-1 loss to hanover .
that defeat left only moenchengladbach between stuttgart and the very bottom of the table .
" we 're stuck deep in the muck , " stuttgart 's technical director , fredi bobic , said after the hanover disappointment .
" i 've got my thoughts about how we 're going to get out of it . "
bobic declined to elaborate on those mental processes , but stuttgart fans at least have a name and a face to pin to them .
the question is : does bruno labbadia - along with gross and keller , stuttgart 's third coach this season - stand a chance at the hardest club in the league to lead ?
plus and minuses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bruno labbadia is going to have to put his thinking cap on bobic may be counting on what might be called the “ labbadia effect . ”
at each of his previous two teams , big bruno 's charges responded well to his tactical instructions and got off to good starts .
a series of wins such as labbadia engineered at leverkusen and hamburg in 2008 and 2009 respectively would probably be enough for stuttgart , whose only goal right now is to avoid relegation .
that 's not out of the question .
stuttgart , who are currently on 12 points , have been on the losing end of a number of controversial refereeing decisions this season and could argue that their current position in the table does n't accurately reflect their quality .
on the other hand , no one would make the case that this is a good team .
the squad has been unable to compensate for the departures of sami khedira and jens lehmann , veteran star mauro camoranesi has spent more time on his tuchus than on the turf , and chemistry between younger and older players is rumored to be quite poor .
that does n't play to labbadia 's strengths .
at both leverkusen and hamburg , he was criticized for being unapproachable and arrogant , and there were unconfirmed rumors about romantic liaisons , or attempts at such , between him and players ' wives .
whatever the truth may be , both teams suffered drastic downward spirals after their hot starts with him in charge , and he departed after less than a year in charge .
now he 's sitting on a true powder keg , a team whose supporters have in the past besieged their own team bus when they 've been disappointed by results .
labbadia 's first task is to win over those fans , and one thing is clear : it ai n't gonna be easy .
the final step toward relegation ?
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stuttgart fans wish the club had n't sold mario gomez if the new coach had any illusions about what he was getting himself into , he needed only surf briefly on the internet to dispel them .
" why labbadia , " one supporter asked on the online forum of the mass circulation bild newspaper .
" he 'll be gone quicker than he can settle on a starting 11 . "
indeed , the overarching tone of the blogosphere was sarcasm .
" the best management in the league has pulled off another brilliant move and hired a much heralded coach guaranteed to bring stability and continuity to the club , " wrote a user on the football forum of die welt newspaper .
" it looks as if stuttgart have finally committed themselves to getting relegated . "
that comment was typical of many others in blaming management for the team 's current misery .
in particular , supporters are unhappy at the club 's penchant for selling stars .
along with khedira , mario gomez and kevin kuranyi are two of the prominent and popular players stuttgart have flogged off in recent years .
if labbadia does n't pan out quickly , stuttgart could be in the hunt for a dubious record - the greatest number of coaches employed by any one club in a single season .
and if bruno does have to go , the odds are that bobic and others within stuttgart 's management will be going with him .
author : jefferson chase editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hanover hit new high with win over struggling stuttgart hanover continued to surpass expectations , rising to second in the standings with a 2-1 win over beleaguered stuttgart .
now , just third from bottom , stuttgart has decided to dump its coach , jens keller .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- ex-amateur coaches at stuttgart , cologne face uphill battle in jens keller and frank schaefer respectively , stuttgart and cologne hope that an in-house promotion will turn the tide .
but former amateur coaches seldom have long-term success in the bundesliga .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- stuttgart need a reality check as gross takes the fall stuttgart packed off its third coach in three seasons when christian gross was shown the door after a woeful start to the season .
but the club 's position is unlikely to improve until deeper problems are resolved .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- feedback will labbadia succeed at stuttgart ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
9800 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live arts on the air listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer on dw-radio .
sports report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
all i want for christmas is ... -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de christmas -pipe- 13.12.2010 all i want for christmas is ... großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children have left instructions for christmas gift-givers for over a century toothpaste may seem like an unusual item on a christmas wish list - but over a century ago , it was n't so strange .
an exhibition in dortmund unveils the touching and sometimes comical history of holiday wish lists . in some countries , christmas presents are exchanged on the morning of december 25 , while most europeans give gifts on the evening of the 24th .
no matter when they 're unwrapped , it 's hard to imagine christmas without presents . the tradition , however , is relatively new .
it was n't until the end of the 19th century that gift-giving was associated with christmas in germany .
before that , st. nicholas brought presents to well-behaved children on december 6 . with the advent of gifts , it was only inevitable that children would help the givers - real and imagined - out with wish lists . " the development of the christmas gift-giving tradition mainly had to do with the fact that more presents and toys were available as a result of industrialization , " historian isolde parussel told deutsche welle . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a christmas gift table may have looked like this in the 19th century of course , not everyone could afford the new toys , but that did n't keep children from writing out their wishes . old toys made just like new parussel is behind the exhibition " … bring us many nice things , " which is currently on show at the museum of art and cultural history in the western german city of dortmund .
over 100 holiday wish lists are on display , along with decorative gift tables , toys and festive christmas trees from the past century . most of the items were collected from private households following a request published in german newspapers . some of the wish lists are addressed to st. nicholas or santa claus , but many were written to the ' christkind ' - a sprite-like child , usually depicted with blond hair and angelic wings . in one list from 1899 , a young girl hoped for " a dress for -lsb- my doll -rsb- fraenzchen , a set of colored pencils , a sailor 's hat for me " but also " calling cards and a tube of calodont tooth paste . "
at the end of the 19th century , tooth paste in tubes was extremely modern - something extraordinary even for a little girl . as the end of the girl 's letter reveals , gifts were n't necessarily expected to be new .
" and then , dear christkind , -lsb- my dolls -rsb- siegfried and dori need to be taken to the hospital .
dori 's hair is growing very sparsely on her head and her limbs are very droopy .
both of these things need to be fixed , " wrote the girl . despite having to organize presents for so many children , the christkind occasionally found time to write back .
one such letter - composed on a typewriter and dated christmas eve , 1911 - is included in the exhibition ; parussel suspects , of course , that it was written by the parents .
" the angels say that you and -lsb- your sister -rsb- staenzerl were n't very good doll mothers this year , " read the letter : " under these circumstances , entrusting you with a real baby seems to be too much of a responsibility . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : isolde parussel curated the dortmund exhibition apparently , the girls had wished for a sibling - a gift their parents apparently were n't yet willing to provide . some things do n't change the letters and lists offer insights into the everyday lives of various generations .
children from the post-world war ii generation wanted nothing more than a warm hat or a notebook for school .
one short generation later , one girl asked for a knee-length skirt , according to the trend of the time . the most recent wish list in the collection is from 2008 .
jascha from dortmund had cut out pictures from catalogues - complete with price tags - to illustrate his list , which mainly consisted of electronics . jascha 's wishes are expensive , but , when taking the standard of living into account , they 're not necessarily more valuable than the things children asked for a century ago , said parussel . " you ca n't necessarily say that this child is just focused on consumption , " she said .
he put just as much effort into his wish list , writing it neatly and decorating it with colored pencils . " author : sola huelsewig -lrb- kjb -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de toys r ' scarce in german stores toy makers and retailers in germany could n't be happier : christmas shoppers appear to have a near insatiable appetite for toys .
products from traditional european toymakers like lego and playmobil are in high demand .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- racism controversy dampens holland 's sinterklaas tradition children across europe eagerly await the arrival of st. nicholas on december 6 .
but in holland , the tradition has racist implications that the dutch are n't quite willing to give up .
-lrb- 05.12.2010 -rrb- ' dear christkind ' : a german post office answers christmas letters in the small town of engelskirchen , thousands of letters from around the world arrive at a seasonal christmas post office , all addressed to one person .
for over 20 years , postal workers have written back .
-lrb- 24.12.2009 -rrb- feedback do you have a special christmas tradition in your family ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply .
05 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
picture gallery christmas markets holiday cheer ís easy to come by during the advent season in germany .
travel explore some of europe 's most fascinating cities with dw-tv 's euromaxx .
athens , greece trieste , italy krakow , poland le mans , france tarragona , spain oslo , norway edinburgh , scotland dresden , germany podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' clip ' homepage clip no. 4 - the intersphere clip no. 5 - shantel clip no. 6 - klee clip no. 7 - einshoch6 subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
admire the view radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
hits in germany concert hour music this week arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth music dw presents podcasts of performances by top artists at the 2010 beethovenfest .
podcasts on itunes more on beethoven © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
all i want for christmas is ... -pipe- culture & lifestyle -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle music art & architecture sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de christmas -pipe- 13.12.2010 all i want for christmas is ... großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : children have left instructions for christmas gift-givers for over a century toothpaste may seem like an unusual item on a christmas wish list - but over a century ago , it was n't so strange .
an exhibition in dortmund unveils the touching and sometimes comical history of holiday wish lists . in some countries , christmas presents are exchanged on the morning of december 25 , while most europeans give gifts on the evening of the 24th .
no matter when they 're unwrapped , it 's hard to imagine christmas without presents . the tradition , however , is relatively new .
it was n't until the end of the 19th century that gift-giving was associated with christmas in germany .
before that , st. nicholas brought presents to well-behaved children on december 6 . with the advent of gifts , it was only inevitable that children would help the givers - real and imagined - out with wish lists . " the development of the christmas gift-giving tradition mainly had to do with the fact that more presents and toys were available as a result of industrialization , " historian isolde parussel told deutsche welle . bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : a christmas gift table may have looked like this in the 19th century of course , not everyone could afford the new toys , but that did n't keep children from writing out their wishes . old toys made just like new parussel is behind the exhibition " … bring us many nice things , " which is currently on show at the museum of art and cultural history in the western german city of dortmund .
over 100 holiday wish lists are on display , along with decorative gift tables , toys and festive christmas trees from the past century . most of the items were collected from private households following a request published in german newspapers . some of the wish lists are addressed to st. nicholas or santa claus , but many were written to the ' christkind ' - a sprite-like child , usually depicted with blond hair and angelic wings . in one list from 1899 , a young girl hoped for " a dress for -lsb- my doll -rsb- fraenzchen , a set of colored pencils , a sailor 's hat for me " but also " calling cards and a tube of calodont tooth paste . "
at the end of the 19th century , tooth paste in tubes was extremely modern - something extraordinary even for a little girl . as the end of the girl 's letter reveals , gifts were n't necessarily expected to be new .
" and then , dear christkind , -lsb- my dolls -rsb- siegfried and dori need to be taken to the hospital .
dori 's hair is growing very sparsely on her head and her limbs are very droopy .
both of these things need to be fixed , " wrote the girl . despite having to organize presents for so many children , the christkind occasionally found time to write back .
one such letter - composed on a typewriter and dated christmas eve , 1911 - is included in the exhibition ; parussel suspects , of course , that it was written by the parents .
" the angels say that you and -lsb- your sister -rsb- staenzerl were n't very good doll mothers this year , " read the letter : " under these circumstances , entrusting you with a real baby seems to be too much of a responsibility . " bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : isolde parussel curated the dortmund exhibition apparently , the girls had wished for a sibling - a gift their parents apparently were n't yet willing to provide . some things do n't change the letters and lists offer insights into the everyday lives of various generations .
children from the post-world war ii generation wanted nothing more than a warm hat or a notebook for school .
one short generation later , one girl asked for a knee-length skirt , according to the trend of the time . the most recent wish list in the collection is from 2008 .
jascha from dortmund had cut out pictures from catalogues - complete with price tags - to illustrate his list , which mainly consisted of electronics . jascha 's wishes are expensive , but , when taking the standard of living into account , they 're not necessarily more valuable than the things children asked for a century ago , said parussel . " you ca n't necessarily say that this child is just focused on consumption , " she said .
he put just as much effort into his wish list , writing it neatly and decorating it with colored pencils . " author : sola huelsewig -lrb- kjb -rrb- editor : sam edmonds send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de toys r ' scarce in german stores toy makers and retailers in germany could n't be happier : christmas shoppers appear to have a near insatiable appetite for toys .
products from traditional european toymakers like lego and playmobil are in high demand .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- racism controversy dampens holland 's sinterklaas tradition children across europe eagerly await the arrival of st. nicholas on december 6 .
but in holland , the tradition has racist implications that the dutch are n't quite willing to give up .
-lrb- 05.12.2010 -rrb- ' dear christkind ' : a german post office answers christmas letters in the small town of engelskirchen , thousands of letters from around the world arrive at a seasonal christmas post office , all addressed to one person .
for over 20 years , postal workers have written back .
-lrb- 24.12.2009 -rrb- 05 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
twitter follow dw culture keep up on europe 's culture and lifestyle scene .
podcast discover some of germany 's hottest young bands in dw 's new free podcast .
' german pop ' homepage somewhere between poet and singer : meet hans unstern subscribe on itunes get the rss feed word of the week learn a funny , quirky german word each week .
word of the week view from my window see the view from the windows of the deutsche welle audience .
view from my window radio tune in to dw-radio 's culture and lifestyle programs .
soundscape 100 concert hour arts on the air inspired minds living in germany pulse - dw for youth © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government -pipe- world -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de in focus : focus : wikileaks disclosures wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts wikileaks release could lead to shift from transparency to secrecy opinion : wikileaks is a test of us commitment to free press opinion : wikileaks ' latest release is a diplomatic waterloo africa -pipe- 13.12.2010 wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell gained information on all aspects of nigeria 's oil business the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria . leaked us diplomatic cables from last year , carried by a number of international newspapers and magazines , show that royal dutch shell - among the major oil producers in nigeria - have infiltrated key nigerian ministries and have been using links to us officials to gain information on rival oil companies in the country , and the movements and objectives of militants in the niger delta region .
shell 's level of penetration into the governmental structure of nigeria - one of the world 's largest oil exporters - have given the company access to politicians and decision-makers at the highest level , providing it with insider knowledge of all movements and negotiations within those ministries .
according to dr. heinz jockers , a nigeria expert and a member of the eu election observation mission to nigeria , shell has personnel in the finance , interior , national planning , defense , environment , energy and foreign affairs ministries as well as influence over a number of presidential advisers , parliamentarians , governors , and high-ranked tribal rulers .
high level infiltration in major ministeries and oil-producing states " shell operatives - although they are unofficially employed by the company - have infiltrated the majority of the most important ministries in the nigerian government , " jockers told deutsche welle .
" they will of course also have their people in the ministries of the main oil-producing states . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell used nigerian sources to help secure its interests jockers said that the main aim of the shell operatives would be to gain information on everything which could in one way or the other affect the company 's business .
" areas of interest for these people would be the position of other competitors , be it companies or countries ; their offers regarding oil deals in nigeria , the pricing scale for oil in the country , and the level of governmental support for security , " he said .
the leaked cables show that shell had obtained information that nigeria had invited bids for oil concessions from china and was concerned at the possibility of increased competition from the people 's republic .
they also show that shell executives requested confirmation from us officials on russian gas giant gazprom 's interest in nigeria after information was obtained from ministerial channels .
jockers added that the practice of infiltration was so widespread that it is highly likely that other large companies have embedded personnel in governmental offices as this was the only way that advantages in business could be gained in nigeria .
" these could include : julius berger , chevron , hochtief , siemens , peugeot , haliburton , and mercedes , " he said .
" you have to remember : nigeria is a chaotic and highly corrupt country .
to do business there , you have to play the game . "
shell contacted us officials over delta militant threat bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : shell wanted us help with getting information on militants ann pickard , shell 's top executive in nigeria , was also revealed to have spoken to us officials in 2008 about the threat of militants in the niger delta which had , at its peak in 2006 , shut down a quarter of nigeria 's oil output .
an amnesty in 2009 ended the acts of sabotage being carried out on vulnerable pipelines and platforms , such as shell 's soku gas facility which had been the target of militant rocket attacks at the height of the so-called oil war .
" shell had been the main target of attacks by militants since the early 1990s , " heinrich bergstresser , a nigeria expert at the german institute of global and area studies -lrb- giga -rrb- in hamburg , told deutsche welle .
" the sabotages and attacks on shell 's installations , among others , were and are executed not just by militants but also orchestrated by complicit agents within the oil companies .
they benefit from the attacks because these people are very often also in charge of managing the payment of compensation which offers the opportunity to keep certain amounts of the payment for themselves . "
the cable dispatches from 2008 showed that shell 's pickard had contacted the us consulate in lagos with an offer to share " intelligence " on militant activity in exchange for information on a shipment of surface-to-air missiles which had allegedly been destined for nigerian militant groups in the delta region .
cables hint at shell 's involvement with local godfathers the cables describe how pickard was also unconvinced that a certain governor in the delta region " lacked the connections among rivers state militant leaders to successfully coopt them as the governors in delta and bayelsa states have done with militants in their states , " and that she believed the clash between the military and militants was " a proxy war for ongoing disputes " between rival governors .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : playing both sides in the delta struggle is a dangerous game this section of the cable transcripts hints at the possibility that shell has been attempting to use its influence to control local leaders , a comlicated and dangerous practice according to heinrich bergstresser .
" shell is playing with fire if it has or had any connection with the governors and militants , " he said .
" on the one hand , the oil companies can not control the governors but on the other hand they can try to persuade them to act in favor of the companies and in their own interest .
i am sure that they are paying certain amounts to the governors but that does not guarantee anything . "
bergstresser added that very often the oil companies find themselves caught between a rock and a hard place .
" the militias have emancipated themselves from their political godfathers and have started their own business of attacks and kidnappings so the oil companies find themselves sandwiched between profit-making , being threatened by militias , and keeping very close relationships with the federal government . "
author : nick amies editor : rob mudge send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de illegal arms shipments to nigeria raise stakes ahead of 2011 elections general elections in nigeria are still several months away , but tensions are rising with memories still fresh of the 2007 poll which saw widespread allegations of corruption , voter fraud and violence .
-lrb- 01.12.2010 -rrb- biafra war anniversary highlights nigeria ’ s uncertain future " biafra " was the taunt german children used for skinny kids in the late 60s - the term was synonymous with starvation .
it is now 40 years since the end of the biafra war , and nigeria 's future still hangs in the balance .
-lrb- 15.01.2010 -rrb- shell settles lawsuit over killing of nigerian activists european oil giant royal dutch shell has agreed to pay $ 15.5 million -lrb- 11.2 million euros -rrb- to the families of six nigerian activists executed in 1995 but has refused to accept any liability for the violence .
-lrb- 09.06.2009 -rrb- 05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
in depth focus on libya dw-world looks at the turmoil in libya : what it means for tripoli and the rest of the world .
cairo clashes cairo 's tahrir square is back in the headlines after violent clashes between protesters and police .
watch the video podcast series college grad leom left a modern life in cambodia 's capital to bring knowledge to a remote village .
download the report subscribe to the series on itunes past episodes international conference media representatives around the world gather in bonn to discuss human rights .
learning by ear educational radio for africa radio for africa radio for afghanistan news partner globalpost check out deutsche welle 's media partner © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 13.12.2010 oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eurozone states have to stop spending money they do n't have and start to cut debt the oecd urged eurozone states to start cutting down their debt loads and correct economic imbalances as soon as possible .
its chief economist gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds , calling them a " good idea " . the organization for economic co-operation and development -lrb- oecd -rrb- warned the 16 eurozone member states on monday that they need to start cutting their heavy debt loads and adopt tough measures to correct economic imbalances . the oecd also urged them to install a permanent crisis resolution mechanism which would force nations to carry out reforms in order to receive aid .
in its latest survey , the oecd predicted the eurozone 's economy would grow by 1.7 percent this year before accelerating to 2 percent in 2011 .
and although the oecd said the eurozone enjoyed a " gradual and sustained recovery " from last year 's steep recession , it also predicted that the pace of recovery would likely be muted .
eurozone states should begin to cut debts by 2011 the latest " fiscal consolidation is the immediate priority to stabilize the public finances and should begin by 2011 at the latest in all countries , " the oecd said in a statement .
oecd chief economist pier carlo padoan acknowledged that it took economists like him too long to understand the underlying reasons for the euro crisis .
" we economists have to plead guilty to that because we now discovered that while looking at -lrb- the -rrb- fiscal -lrb- situation -rrb- that needs to be looked at , we neglected other elements that now we know prove to be extremely important , " he said .
the crisis was caused by an economic imbalance , which had always existed in europe , he added .
the common currency only served to exacerbate that fact .
according to daniel gros , head of the center for european policy studies , one has to go back about 20 years to find the root of the current crisis .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms " will boost growth , said padoan " the problems we have been experiencing at the european periphery go back to german reunification .
at that time , germany experienced a construction and consumption boom which led to a rise in interest rates , while the rest of europe was moving in the opposite direction , " he said .
" beginning in 1995 , it was germany that had to watch its finances while other nations , thanks to the global credit boom , were spending more freely .
now the tables are turning again . "
the massive public debt of practically all of the oecd 's member states , is one of the main problems , said chief economist padoan .
" the first , best solution for countries is strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms to boost growth .
we think this is the way forward . "
financial markets may not grant greece enough time to implement reforms however , eurozone states appear to be moving in the right direction .
" the reforms we are currently witnessing in greece and elsewhere will take effect at some point , " said gros .
" the question we 're asking right now is whether the financial markets will give those countries the time they need to implement the reforms .
germany had enough time .
greece may possibly not . "
this is a scenario no one wants to imagine .
oecd chief economist padoan gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds .
" imagining that there is a european dimension to financial markets , including bond markets , is a good idea , " he said .
author : christoph hasselbach -lrb- db / sst / dpa / afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland bailout reignites fears about the future of the euro germany has seen a number of its own currencies come and go : the deutschmark , the reichsmark and , before that , the mark .
now some analysts are grumbling that the euro may be on its way out too .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- debt crisis exposes the euro 's flaws but divorce is not an option like marriage partners , eurozone nations fight about money .
germany grumbles about paying for the profligacy of others , but pays , since sticking together is the lesser of evils , says die zeit 's josef joffe .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- eurogroup finance ministers agree details of euro safety net eurozone finance ministers have signed off on a 500-billion-euro safety fund to stave off future crises within the single currency zone .
the announcement comes amid concerns over the strength and stability of the euro .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- 05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live im focus - dokumentationen und reportagen we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live news listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
history austria returns the remains of 30 australian aborigines to their descendants after 100 years .
listen to the audio nuclear power france is n't following germany 's lead when it comes to shunning nuclear power .
watch the video espionage a russian court convicts a former intelligence officer for betraying 10 russian spies in the us .
listen to the audio poland a politician 's comment about the polish region of silesia stirs up an old debate about identity .
watch the video inside europe the colorful continent explore the news , issues and culture shaping europe today .
europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
victims of abuse in children 's homes ' betrayed ' by compensation proposal -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 13.12.2010 victims of abuse in children 's homes ' betrayed ' by compensation proposal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many victims feel betrayed by the round table 's results a panel called to investigate the systematic maltreatment of thousands of juveniles in children 's homes in the 1950s and 1960s has recommended the payment of compensation .
but many victims feel betrayed . an extra-parliamentary panel in berlin on monday presented the results of two years of round-table negotiations on how to compensate tens of thousands of former children and youths for the systematic wrongdoings they had to endure at the hands of educators in west germany 's children 's homes in the 1950s and 1960s .
the panel recommended that victims who suffered torture , maltreatment and humiliation receive compensation from a 120-million-euro -lrb- $ 160 million -rrb- fund financed by the german government , federal states and churches .
the payments are to be used for pension funds , for treatment of subsequent damages or as rent assistance .
" children in children 's homes were never able to argue for their rights by themselves , " said antje vollmer , head of the round-table group of politicians , church representatives and victims .
" this is why they are still entitled to financial compensation . " the german parliament bundestag and the federal states ' parliaments have yet to decide on the round table 's proposals , but georg gorissen , the representative of the federal government and the western german federal states , said they were in favor of the compensation funds .
the catholic and the protestant church announced they would pay their share of the funds .
30,000 could make use of the funds twenty million euros are planned for pension payments since a lot of children had to start working at the age of 14 , but the children 's homes declined to pay into their pension funds .
another 100 million euros should go towards the treating the consequences of the abuse .
according to recent investigations , about 30,000 people are eligible for compensation .
so far , around 2,500 former victims have come forward .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " we did n't achieve all our goals , but we did achieve a lot , " said wiegand hans-siegfried wiegand , one of the more prominent victims participating in the round table negotiations , said that not all demands had been met .
victims groups had been aiming for a monthly lump-sum payment of 300 euros or a single payment of around 50,000 euros .
" we did n't achieve all of our goals , but we did achieve a lot , " wiegand said .
compensation is a " farce " the chairwoman of the association of former children 's homes residents , monika tschapek-guentner called the compensation funds a " farce " and dismissed case-to-case examinations .
tschapek-guentner is still demanding lump-sum payments to all victims .
the 120-million-euro fund is an " outrage , " amounting to between just 2,000-4,000 euros for each victim .
" that is really humiliating , " she said .
" that 's an attempt to drop the issue with minimum compensation . "
the association advised victims to claim money from the funds .
but tschapek-guentner is planning to take the case further .
" i will go as far as the european court of justice , " she said .
another member of the round-table , juergen beverfoerden , added that victims had been under a lot of pressure at the talks .
" there was the threat that we wo n't get anything if we do n't agree to the final report , " he said .
antje vollmer rebuffed the accusations . justice minister sabine leutheusser-schnarrenberger said that " earmarked funds are an appropriate reaction to individual injustice , " but said she also understood that expectations of victims might have been higher .
the head of the catholic church in germany , robert zollitsch and his protestant counterpart , nikolaus schneider , both advocated a quick and unbureaucratic establishment of the fund .
up to 800,000 children lived in german children 's homes between 1949 and 1975 , run by the government as well as by churches .
author : sarah steffen -lrb- epd , ap , kna , afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany launches campaign for sexual abuse victims to speak out in response to the child abuse scandal in the catholic church , thousands of german victims are being targeted by a new campaign that aims to end their silent suffering .
the message is that talking helps .
-lrb- 21.09.2010 -rrb- cases of sex abuse emerge from former east germany following the scandals of child sex abuse in the roman catholic church and private schools in western germany , new revelations have now emerged about abuse in former communist east germany .
-lrb- 01.04.2010 -rrb- germany urges catholic church to come clean on child abuse the german government has called on the catholic church to play a proactive role in clarifying the widening allegations of clerical sex abuse at catholic schools throughout the country .
-lrb- 21.02.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ' too little , too late ' -lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- victims of abuse set to receive compensation -lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- 05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live euromaxx - lifestyle europe we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live inspired minds listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
digital street art artists in berlin reinvent graffiti by projecting light onto buildings using computer systems .
watch the video feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stress tests doubted as ireland suffers from bank bailout -pipe- business -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business 125 years automobile science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de banking -pipe- 13.12.2010 stress tests doubted as ireland suffers from bank bailout großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : are the eu 's bank stress tests accurate enough ?
ireland is floundering under the expense of its bank bailout , but irish banks passed the eu-wide stress tests in july .
some now dismiss the tests as nothing more than a ' placebo ' for the market . when the eu-wide bank stress test results were made public in july , skepticism soon followed .
after all , just seven of 91 banks failed , leading some to believe the tests had been too easy .
none of ireland 's banks failed .
yet the country floundered under the sheer expense of bailing out and reforming its financial system .
in private , the chief financial officer of a european bank recently referred to the stress tests conducted over the past year as nothing more than a " placebo for the market . "
gerhard hofmann , a board member of the national association of german cooperative banks -lrb- bvr -rrb- , is skeptical about the accuracy of the tests .
he is n't aware of any cases in which they " actually had a high level of revelatory value , or a high level of predictive power in regards to future problem areas , " he told deutsche welle .
" what is put under stress today is most likely not tomorrow 's problem . "
first public results bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : german financial regulator bafin carried out stress tests in germany according to benjamin fischer , a spokesman for german financial regulator bafin , three german banks were subjected to the first european union-wide stress tests in 2009 .
those results were not published .
the number then jumped to 15 in 2010 , although one bank was the subsidiary of an italian bank and was tested by that country 's financial regulator .
the results of these tests were published .
" it was a novelty that the results were made public , " fischer told deutsche welle .
" naturally , it made working on the stress tests more difficult because the attention was significantly more present . "
stress tests , according to fischer , are hypothetical instruments normally used in the banking industry .
" banks and regulators use stress tests as a kind of early-warning system to identify possible weaknesses ahead of time , " he said .
each eu nation carried out a test prescribed by the committee of european banking supervisors -lrb- cebs -rrb- .
while another stress test is likely in 2011 , it remains to be seen whether or not results will be made public .
a spokesman for cebs declined to comment .
according to the central bank of ireland , the irish stress tests were carried out with higher loan loss rates being applied than actually required by cebs .
still , ireland 's finances buckled and its debt rating plummeted as the country scrambled to save banks teetering on the edge of collapse .
ireland will now receive a bailout from the eu and the international monetary fund worth 85 billion euros -lrb- $ 112 billion -rrb- .
banks tested at status quo michael schroeder , an economist with the centre for european economic research in mannheim , said he does n't believe the irish crisis invalidates the cebs stress tests .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : patrick honohan 's central bank of ireland carried out the stress tests in ireland " the banks were tested at status quo ... and at that point they had already passed on some of their problems to the government , " he told deutsche welle .
each individual bank was placed under artificial stress , schroeder says , but a different picture , he argues , would likely emerge if the pressure were applied system-wide .
" the problem with the financial crisis was that many banks had similar portfolios and reacted similarly – in that they wanted to get rid of their portfolios , " he said .
" i do n't believe the tests depicted the crisis situation with complete accuracy . "
schroeder advocates a method of risk analysis called covar -lrb- conditional value at risk -rrb- , which is capable of simulating " how the portfolio of a bank reacts when there is a shock in all other banks . "
in other words , covar can be used to gain insight into chain reactions throughout a financial system .
it is gaining support throughout the financial world , according to schroeder .
in general , he believes , transparency in stress testing is a worthy objective .
" there was a lot of discussion about whether to publicize the results , " schroeder said .
" if the information is reliable and accurately represents specific problems then , yes , i would publicize it .
those who are active in the market and deal in stocks and investment on a large scale should know about it . "
market supplanted by european central bank one possible pitfall is that stress testing can backfire if publicized results turn out to be inaccurate .
bankers are currently fretting over whether ireland and other troubled eu countries will be able to fully repay government bonds .
to play it safe , they often turn to the european central bank -lrb- ecb -rrb- to deposit their assets and secure lines of credit .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future of the euro is linked with that of ireland fidel helmer of the hauck & aufhauser bank says industry-wide mistrust affects all players .
banks lend less among themselves , and the supply and demand for money is routed over the ecb instead of the open market .
" i think that deutsche bank , for instance , is under excellent leadership and will fetch excellent results , " he told deutsche welle .
nevertheless , the value of the bank 's stock took a nose dive this year .
that development is something helmer directly attributes to the cebs stress tests .
he said the tests were questionable and so far-reaching that they cast doubt even on healthy institutions .
author : gerhard schneibel / michael braun editor : john blau send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de eu divided over euro bonds , no increase in bailout funds there was no agreement on plans for joint euro bonds at a meeting of the eurozone finance ministers in brussels on monday , where the eurogroup decided against any increase in the rescue fund for debt-saddled countries .
-lrb- 06.12.2010 -rrb- euro is ' credible , ' not in crisis : trichet ecb president jean-claude trichet has moved to calm jittery financial markets by calling the euro ' credible ' and agreeing to continue the bank 's emergency bond-buying program to prop the struggling eurozone .
-lrb- 03.12.2010 -rrb- irish central bank chief expects ' substantial eu loan ' the head of ireland 's central bank has said the country will likely receive a multi-billion-euro loan to help save the country from financial meltdown .
this comes as an eu / imf mission is in dublin for emergency talks .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- ireland announces sweeping austerity measures to secure bailout the irish government has given details of its most stringent austerity plan ever , aimed at saving 15 billion euros over the next four years .
the cuts are necessary to secure a multi-billion-euro international bailout .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- ireland announces drastic budget cuts as eu bailout is officially approved european union finance ministers formally approved the 85-billion-euro rescue loan for crisis-stricken ireland on tuesday as the country announced the toughest domestic budget in its history .
-lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic the irish government unveils a crisis budget -lrb- 07.12.2010 -rrb- eu leaders want ecb to buy government bonds -lrb- 02.12.2010 -rrb- 05 radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
european business week listen to the latest edition of european business week media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
dw-tv europe live journal - news with in depth we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live newslink listen live stock exchange today in history 1841 : the birth of mass tourism dw-tv get an inside look at some of germany 's more unusual companies .
flying the german flag - costly voyages for shipping companies captains in the classroom - rostock 's maritime school organbuilding - the art and craft of the perfect sound saving makes cents – new heating technology for industry © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 08.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : online vigilantes have taken to their keyboards following the arrest in the netherlands of two teenagers involved in last week 's distributed denial of service attacks against mastercard , lawyers tell young hackers to be aware of the law . on saturday , a second dutch teenager , 19 , was arrested for having been part of a cyberattack that targeted the dutch public prosecutor 's website .
the prosecutor 's site became a target after the dutch prosecutor arrested another dutch teenager , 16 , who had joined an online " hacktivist " attack in the name of wikileaks .
this is just the latest in a series of attacks against perceived enemies of wikileaks largely by a group of its supporters , a shadowy online vigilante group that calls itself anonymous .
" any individual , organization , corporation , and / or government entity which supports freedom of speech and a free internet is an ally of anonymous , " the organization said on its website . " if you work to suppress freedom of expression and a free internet your efforts will be halted . "
the group is more like a semi-controlled herd rather than a traditional heirarchical organization - it does not have clear leadership or direction .
previously , it targeted the church of scientology and the website of the recording industry association of america .
but now that some have been caught for their alleged crimes , it may serve as a legal warning shot to those who feel that they can hide in this hacktivist huddle .
misused technology this time around , in response to the wikileaks case , anonymous followers have been using a computer application known as low orbit ion canon -lrb- loic -rrb- .
using this software , these hacktivists , managed to temporarily disable a number of major financial companý websites , including mastercard 's .
the software used in the attacks was originally designed to help protect websites by testing their penetrability , but when pointed at an unsuspecting site it has the reverse effect .
when used en masse , it is a crude but simple way to create a ddos , or distributed denial of service attack , which floods websites with high level of artificial traffic , making them temporarily slow or more often , unusable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wikileaks founder julian assange , has neither condoned nor condemned the denial of service attacks eddy willems , the spokesperson for tthe european expert group for it security told deutsche welle that there is n't much to the application , which he describes as a " pretty screen " with some buttons to press .
yet the flood module , which crafts packets to send to the target to deal with , can be quite debilitating .
" when you get enough people doing this , " he said , " something has to give .
in this case it 's the targets ' websites . "
the war is not over if anonymous is to be believed , they will keep on bringing these kinds of online attacks as long as there are enough wikileaks supporters on board to bring it about .
as far as they are concerned , it is a matter of principle .
but legal experts are now warning hot-blooded young activists to be aware of where their principle might land them , for to use loic to launch an attack is to misuse it , and that can have very serious consequences .
" users are putting themselves at risk , " willems continued .
" they are not real cyber criminals and they do n't realize that they could be sent to prison for this kind of thing . "
this is the same type of attack that was used against estonia in 2007 , although the estonian one did not involve the use of a software application , but rather through more organized botnets .
estonian government officials suspected that the russian government was somehow involved in attacking estonian financial and political websites , but in the end , only one estonian citizen was punished , who had to pay a relatively small fine .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mastercard was one of the hacktivists ' targets in some cases , finding users is not difficult as was the case of the 19-year-old dutch teenager who was arrested on saturday - as he had neglected to mask his ip address , making it relatively simple for law enforcement to find him .
depending on the protective measures users take , its perpetrators can be easily traced within the space of a day or even just a couple of hours , something which begs the question as to why anonymous has chosen the approach it has .
one suggestion is that the loic application is easy to come by and easy to use , while another is simply that hacktivists are naive .
risky business while the first dutch teenager was released , the younger boy remains in detention over what a spokesman for the dutch prosecutors described as potentially more serious violations .
some observers believe the two boys will be among a handful likely to be singled out and held up as a deterrent to more ddos attacks of this nature .
however , izaz ali , a british attorney specializing in internet law , told deutsche welle that in the case of britain there could be more wide-spread arrests .
" we 're talking here about the computer misuse act , " he said .
" the government will be forcing the police to look into this . "
using loic in a similar fashion may also violate similar statutes in germany and the netherlands .
damage limitation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future for blue-eyed hackers ?
contrary to some reports , ali says it is not illegal to download the software , as long as it is not used for anything other than it was originally intended .
" it is no different from using microsoft word to write something that causes damage to someone else , a computer virus for example . "
damage is the main issue here - if these attacks were simply a case of tit-for-tat that did not affect the possibility to legitimately use affected sites , the lawyer says it would be a different story .
in other words , ali advocates actual old-fashioned street protests to protest their cause in time-honored style .
" do it the old way , " he said , adding that these kinds of modern cyber attacks are harmful to people who might even share the same views .
" they see they are showing people that the leaks are a good thing , but they are going to cause problems for a lot of people , and this is a bad thing . "
reporter : tamsin walker editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- dutch police arrest hacker over alleged cyber attacks hackers have been waging cyber war on the websites of opponents of wikileaks , saying they 're fighting for a " free and open " internet .
dutch police have arrested a teenager accused of taking part in the attacks .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts contrary to oft-stated claims , the wikileaks cables show no huge credibility gap between official us policies and what diplomats write in confidential cables , say experts .
that doesn ’ t hold true for some other countries .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- australia offers support to wikileaks founder , operation payback begins canberra announced it will offer consular support to wikileaks founder julian assange who 's being held in britain .
meanwhile , hackers shut down the web sites of companies that cut business ties with wikileaks .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- 05 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
successful european tech startups continue to lag behind -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 12.07.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio about dw-radio what 's on ?
reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 successful european tech startups continue to lag behind großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : european startups still lag behind us counterparts after a series of recent european tech conferences , silicon valley continues to dominate .
tech venture capital on this side of the atlantic still remains relatively small , due to bureaucracy , language problems . it was hard to ignore the dominance of silicon valley at this year 's leweb tech conference last week in paris - nearly all the speakers and featured guests were from california 's famed tech hub .
while european innovation is picking up speed , it is starting from a long way behind the american startup scene - participants at the conference blamed over-cautious investors and misguided government spending .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : european venture capitalists have n't been investing in tech startups as long as they have been in silicon valley a vicious cycle in europe adventurous investors tend to be entrepreneurs themselves , so , where silicon valley has created a virtuous cycle , europe is faced with a chicken-and-egg situation : there 's not enough money because there are not enough start-ups , and there are not enough start-ups because there 's not enough money .
" i know quite a few companies that moved to the valley just because they found capital there , " said sarik weber , a german entrepreneur who runs the start-up incubator programme hanse ventures in hamburg .
his company provides capital and advice to new businesses .
" the whole silicon valley ecosystem is based on 40 to 50 years of entrepreneurs building their companies doing exits very successfully and then reinvesting this money back into the ecosystem , " he added . " this is what really fosters the european startup scene .
when we get great exits like skype or others , these people reinvest their money into european start-ups and we have to create that . "
while european governments spend more on research and development than their american and japanese counterparts , experts say that tax incentives and subsidies are not doing anything to encourage private-sector investors .
" the state is doing its job , but do the individual investors have enough confidence to invest more in research and development ? " said pierre monhen , who teaches innovation policy at the united nations university in maastricht , the netherlands .
" there is a more cautious attitude in europe than in the us . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some entrepeneurs claim that with the proper political direction , european startups could do much better poor european political decisions hinder innovation , entrepeneurs say but several entrepreneurs at leweb maintained that it is a political problem , and less of a problem of entrepeneurship . european governments , and the european union itself , may be spending money , but it is not very effective .
johan staeul von holstein , who has most recently founded mycube , a social networking startup based in singapore , thinks innovation could be encouraged with judicious tax reforms .
" there 's as much capital as you can possibly imagine around , " he said .
" it 's just that the wrong people are sitting on the capital .
politicians need to understand the value of entrepreneurship and innovation and growth , and by giving huge tax benefits to entrepreneurs making their own decisions and putting large amounts of money in the hands of entrepreneurs : that would change the whole system in 24 hours . "
a more serious problem is cultural attitudes and bad ideas , according to tariq krim , one of europe 's most successful entrepreneurs .
he set up jolicloud , a company that makes a linux-based operating system which can be installed on any computer .
he adds that spending on innovation is misguided , and tends to go to a few large companies rather than lots of small ones .
in 2008 , france , for example , invested 99 million euros -lrb- $ 131 million -rrb- in a new search engine called quearo , which was supposed to be a european answer to google .
since then , essentially nothing has happened and the project appears to be dead .
" they should have rather give money to 20 start ups , " krim said .
“ it has to be a competitive state about ideas . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many european startups , like slense , limit themselves to only a few languages , like english - making the european market a lot smaller .
heterogeneous language , culture slow european tech startups but beyond poor investment , the single european market may have simplified the movement of labor and money , but it has not created a single customer base .
freddy mini , who runs netvibes , a start-up that creates personalised dashboards on the web , pointed out that american companies automatically have a leg up , as they have a much more culturally and linguistically homogenous employment and customer base than their european counterparts .
in other words , he noted , european companies have to hire specialists for each corner of the continent .
" the first advice is forget your culture - get to the culture of the country where you live and hire people from the ground , " he said .
author : molly guinness , paris editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de niche search engines pick needles out of web haystacks several new search engines focus on segments of the web , like social networking or microblogging sites .
they are not looking to challenge google , but they are letting users search places that google ca n't reach .
-lrb- 22.09.2010 -rrb- swedish start-up offers new micro-donation system flattr lets readers donate by clicking buttons on blogs and other websites .
some sites have reported income of over 1,000 euros as a result of the new company .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- ‘ hubs ’ offer like-minded businesses a shared home as more people start businesses from home with nothing but a laptop , the rapidly growing ' hub ' network aims to create a mutually beneficial work environment that provides some of the perks of working for a larger firm .
-lrb- 21.07.2010 -rrb- 05 media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multimedia archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum blog awards find out who won this year 's dw best blog competition .
' a tunisian girl ' talks blogging the revolution and the winners are ... thebobs.com social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
infographic our interactive data visualization shows the past 10 years of the german wikipedia .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese for africa romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach -pipe- sports -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de bundesliga -pipe- 13.12.2010 stuttering stuttgart tap two-time failure labbadia as new coach großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : this is another winter of discontent for stuttgart having fired jens keller after only 60 days in charge , stuttgart are rolling the dice again with bruno labbadia , formerly of leverkusen and hamburg .
but can he handle the toughest job in german football ? what do jogi loew , ralf rangnick , matthias sammer , giovanni trapattoni and christian gross have in common ?
if you said that they are all successful coaches who have been fired by stuttgart , you 'd be right .
that might be some small consolation to jens keller , who was axed on sunday after stuttgart suffered an unlucky 2-1 loss to hanover .
that defeat left only moenchengladbach between stuttgart and the very bottom of the table .
" we 're stuck deep in the muck , " stuttgart 's technical director , fredi bobic , said after the hanover disappointment .
" i 've got my thoughts about how we 're going to get out of it . "
bobic declined to elaborate on those mental processes , but stuttgart fans at least have a name and a face to pin to them .
the question is : does bruno labbadia - along with gross and keller , stuttgart 's third coach this season - stand a chance at the hardest club in the league to lead ?
plus and minuses bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : bruno labbadia is going to have to put his thinking cap on bobic may be counting on what might be called the “ labbadia effect . ”
at each of his previous two teams , big bruno 's charges responded well to his tactical instructions and got off to good starts .
a series of wins such as labbadia engineered at leverkusen and hamburg in 2008 and 2009 respectively would probably be enough for stuttgart , whose only goal right now is to avoid relegation .
that 's not out of the question .
stuttgart , who are currently on 12 points , have been on the losing end of a number of controversial refereeing decisions this season and could argue that their current position in the table does n't accurately reflect their quality .
on the other hand , no one would make the case that this is a good team .
the squad has been unable to compensate for the departures of sami khedira and jens lehmann , veteran star mauro camoranesi has spent more time on his tuchus than on the turf , and chemistry between younger and older players is rumored to be quite poor .
that does n't play to labbadia 's strengths .
at both leverkusen and hamburg , he was criticized for being unapproachable and arrogant , and there were unconfirmed rumors about romantic liaisons , or attempts at such , between him and players ' wives .
whatever the truth may be , both teams suffered drastic downward spirals after their hot starts with him in charge , and he departed after less than a year in charge .
now he 's sitting on a true powder keg , a team whose supporters have in the past besieged their own team bus when they 've been disappointed by results .
labbadia 's first task is to win over those fans , and one thing is clear : it ai n't gonna be easy .
the final step toward relegation ?
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : stuttgart fans wish the club had n't sold mario gomez if the new coach had any illusions about what he was getting himself into , he needed only surf briefly on the internet to dispel them .
" why labbadia , " one supporter asked on the online forum of the mass circulation bild newspaper .
" he 'll be gone quicker than he can settle on a starting 11 . "
indeed , the overarching tone of the blogosphere was sarcasm .
" the best management in the league has pulled off another brilliant move and hired a much heralded coach guaranteed to bring stability and continuity to the club , " wrote a user on the football forum of die welt newspaper .
" it looks as if stuttgart have finally committed themselves to getting relegated . "
that comment was typical of many others in blaming management for the team 's current misery .
in particular , supporters are unhappy at the club 's penchant for selling stars .
along with khedira , mario gomez and kevin kuranyi are two of the prominent and popular players stuttgart have flogged off in recent years .
if labbadia does n't pan out quickly , stuttgart could be in the hunt for a dubious record - the greatest number of coaches employed by any one club in a single season .
and if bruno does have to go , the odds are that bobic and others within stuttgart 's management will be going with him .
author : jefferson chase editor : chuck penfold send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de hanover hit new high with win over struggling stuttgart hanover continued to surpass expectations , rising to second in the standings with a 2-1 win over beleaguered stuttgart .
now , just third from bottom , stuttgart has decided to dump its coach , jens keller .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- ex-amateur coaches at stuttgart , cologne face uphill battle in jens keller and frank schaefer respectively , stuttgart and cologne hope that an in-house promotion will turn the tide .
but former amateur coaches seldom have long-term success in the bundesliga .
-lrb- 22.11.2010 -rrb- stuttgart need a reality check as gross takes the fall stuttgart packed off its third coach in three seasons when christian gross was shown the door after a woeful start to the season .
but the club 's position is unlikely to improve until deeper problems are resolved .
-lrb- 15.10.2010 -rrb- feedback will labbadia succeed at stuttgart ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live radio d listen live dw-radio hear the latest from german soccer and more on dw-radio .
sports report high scorer freiburg 's papiss demba cisse opens up to dw-tv 's bundesliga kick off ! about his goalscoring ways .
watch the report scores click here for all 2010-11 bundesliga results at a glance .
team profiles a-z bayer leverkusen bayern munich cologne borussia dortmund eintracht frankfurt freiburg hamburg hanover hoffenheim kaiserslautern mainz borussia moenchengladbach nuremberg schalke st. pauli stuttgart werder bremen wolfsburg dw-tv kick off !
check out german football highlights and interviews on dw-tv 's twice-weekly bundesliga extravaganza . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 experts warn of legal action against wikileaks supporters großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : online vigilantes have taken to their keyboards following the arrest in the netherlands of two teenagers involved in last week 's distributed denial of service attacks against mastercard , lawyers tell young hackers to be aware of the law . on saturday , a second dutch teenager , 19 , was arrested for having been part of a cyberattack that targeted the dutch public prosecutor 's website .
the prosecutor 's site became a target after the dutch prosecutor arrested another dutch teenager , 16 , who had joined an online " hacktivist " attack in the name of wikileaks .
this is just the latest in a series of attacks against perceived enemies of wikileaks largely by a group of its supporters , a shadowy online vigilante group that calls itself anonymous .
" any individual , organization , corporation , and / or government entity which supports freedom of speech and a free internet is an ally of anonymous , " the organization said on its website . " if you work to suppress freedom of expression and a free internet your efforts will be halted . "
the group is more like a semi-controlled herd rather than a traditional heirarchical organization - it does not have clear leadership or direction .
previously , it targeted the church of scientology and the website of the recording industry association of america .
but now that some have been caught for their alleged crimes , it may serve as a legal warning shot to those who feel that they can hide in this hacktivist huddle .
misused technology this time around , in response to the wikileaks case , anonymous followers have been using a computer application known as low orbit ion canon -lrb- loic -rrb- .
using this software , these hacktivists , managed to temporarily disable a number of major financial companý websites , including mastercard 's .
the software used in the attacks was originally designed to help protect websites by testing their penetrability , but when pointed at an unsuspecting site it has the reverse effect .
when used en masse , it is a crude but simple way to create a ddos , or distributed denial of service attack , which floods websites with high level of artificial traffic , making them temporarily slow or more often , unusable .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : wikileaks founder julian assange , has neither condoned nor condemned the denial of service attacks eddy willems , the spokesperson for tthe european expert group for it security told deutsche welle that there is n't much to the application , which he describes as a " pretty screen " with some buttons to press .
yet the flood module , which crafts packets to send to the target to deal with , can be quite debilitating .
" when you get enough people doing this , " he said , " something has to give .
in this case it 's the targets ' websites . "
the war is not over if anonymous is to be believed , they will keep on bringing these kinds of online attacks as long as there are enough wikileaks supporters on board to bring it about .
as far as they are concerned , it is a matter of principle .
but legal experts are now warning hot-blooded young activists to be aware of where their principle might land them , for to use loic to launch an attack is to misuse it , and that can have very serious consequences .
" users are putting themselves at risk , " willems continued .
" they are not real cyber criminals and they do n't realize that they could be sent to prison for this kind of thing . "
this is the same type of attack that was used against estonia in 2007 , although the estonian one did not involve the use of a software application , but rather through more organized botnets .
estonian government officials suspected that the russian government was somehow involved in attacking estonian financial and political websites , but in the end , only one estonian citizen was punished , who had to pay a relatively small fine .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : mastercard was one of the hacktivists ' targets in some cases , finding users is not difficult as was the case of the 19-year-old dutch teenager who was arrested on saturday - as he had neglected to mask his ip address , making it relatively simple for law enforcement to find him .
depending on the protective measures users take , its perpetrators can be easily traced within the space of a day or even just a couple of hours , something which begs the question as to why anonymous has chosen the approach it has .
one suggestion is that the loic application is easy to come by and easy to use , while another is simply that hacktivists are naive .
risky business while the first dutch teenager was released , the younger boy remains in detention over what a spokesman for the dutch prosecutors described as potentially more serious violations .
some observers believe the two boys will be among a handful likely to be singled out and held up as a deterrent to more ddos attacks of this nature .
however , izaz ali , a british attorney specializing in internet law , told deutsche welle that in the case of britain there could be more wide-spread arrests .
" we 're talking here about the computer misuse act , " he said .
" the government will be forcing the police to look into this . "
using loic in a similar fashion may also violate similar statutes in germany and the netherlands .
damage limitation bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : the future for blue-eyed hackers ?
contrary to some reports , ali says it is not illegal to download the software , as long as it is not used for anything other than it was originally intended .
" it is no different from using microsoft word to write something that causes damage to someone else , a computer virus for example . "
damage is the main issue here - if these attacks were simply a case of tit-for-tat that did not affect the possibility to legitimately use affected sites , the lawyer says it would be a different story .
in other words , ali advocates actual old-fashioned street protests to protest their cause in time-honored style .
" do it the old way , " he said , adding that these kinds of modern cyber attacks are harmful to people who might even share the same views .
" they see they are showing people that the leaks are a good thing , but they are going to cause problems for a lot of people , and this is a bad thing . "
reporter : tamsin walker editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de wikileaks exposes shell 's infiltration of nigeria 's government the recent wikileaks revelations have exposed the high level of influence , infiltration and intelligence-gathering that global oil companies have in resource-rich nations in africa , specifically shell 's role in nigeria .
-lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- dutch police arrest hacker over alleged cyber attacks hackers have been waging cyber war on the websites of opponents of wikileaks , saying they 're fighting for a " free and open " internet .
dutch police have arrested a teenager accused of taking part in the attacks .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- wikileaks cables show consistent us foreign policy , say experts contrary to oft-stated claims , the wikileaks cables show no huge credibility gap between official us policies and what diplomats write in confidential cables , say experts .
that doesn ’ t hold true for some other countries .
-lrb- 10.12.2010 -rrb- australia offers support to wikileaks founder , operation payback begins canberra announced it will offer consular support to wikileaks founder julian assange who 's being held in britain .
meanwhile , hackers shut down the web sites of companies that cut business ties with wikileaks .
-lrb- 08.12.2010 -rrb- feedback what should happen to those who perpetrate denial of service attacks ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
ta ´ adanin makaman nukiliya na farko a duniya -pipe- amsoshin takardunku -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 shiga batutuwa labarai siyasa zamantakewa afirka a jaridun jamus amsoshin takardunku samun haɗin kan jamus darussan jamusanci koyan jamusanci koyar da jamusanci deutsch xxl dw-radio kuna sauraronmu learning by ear adireshi dw-tv shirin turanci interactive podcast mobile rss amsoshin takardunku -pipe- 13.12.2010 ta ´ adanin makaman nukiliya na farko a duniya großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : tarwatsewar nukiliya tagwayen hare-haren bama-baman nukiliya da amurika ta kai a nagazaki da hiroshima su ne ta ´ adin bam mafi muni a duniya ƙasar amurika ta fara amfani da makaman nukiliya a duniya a lokacin yaƙin duniya na biyu .
a cikin wannan yaƙi , ranar shida ga watan ogusta na shekara 1945 , amurika ta yi amfani da wata bam mai guba , da aka raɗawa suna little boy a birnin hiroshima na ƙasar japan.wannan bam na da tsawan mita ukku , sannan yauninta ya kai ton huɗu.an ƙera ta , ta hanyar sarrafa makamashin uranium .
sojojin amurika sun harbo ta kan birnin hiroshima daga ƙoluluwar samaniya , da nisan zai kai kilomita goma , amma su ka tarwatsa ta , a daidai nisan mitoci 560 a sararin samaniyar hiroshima .
lokacin da ta tarwatse , a nan take ta yi sanadiyar mutuwar mutane dubu 70 , sannan dubun dubunnan wasu mutanen su ka ji raunuka , wasun har ƙarshen rayuwarsu , sun yi ta fama da illolin wannan bam , domin da ruwa da abinci da iskan sheɗawa baki ɗaya su ka gurɓace a tsawan shekaru da dama .
kwana ukku rak bayan harba wannan bam , amurika ta ƙara harba bam ta biyu a wani birnin daban na japoan da ake kira nagazaki .
bom ɗin mai suna fat man , an harba ta ranar tara ga watan ogusta na shekara 1945 , tsawan ta ya kai mita ukku da ɗugu 25 , sannan yauninta ton ukku da rabi , wato ta ɗan zarta bam ɗin farko yauni .
wannan bam da sojojin amurika su ka harba a nagazaki a take ta hallaka mutane dubu 40 sannan dubu 25 su ka ji mumunan raunuka.da dama daga cikinsu sun rasa rayuka dalili da ƙunar jiki da kuma illolin guba .
wannan tagwayen bama-baman nukiliya da amurika ta harba a ƙasar japan su na su ka ida kawo ƙarshen yaƙin duniya na biyu .
to tun bayan wannan ta ´ asa ne ƙasashen duniya su ka ƙirƙiro hukumar yaƙi da yaɗuwar makaman nulkiya wato iaea , cibiyarta na birnin vienna na ƙasar austriya .
ƙungiya ce wadda majalisar ɗinkin duniya ta girka wadda yaunin da ya rataya kanta shine na tabbar da ƙasashe sun yi amfani da atom ta hanyar cigaba a maimakon yin amfani da shi wajen ƙera makaman ƙare dangi .
shugaban ƙasar amurika esenhower shi ne ya yi sanadiyar ƙirƙiro wannan ƙungiya a shekara 1953 , to amma sai ranar 29 ga watan juli na shekara 1957 a ka ƙaddamar da ita , bayan ƙasashe 81 na duniya su ka taru su ka rattaba hannu akan amincewa da hana yaɗumar makaman nukiliya .
a halin da ake ciki yanzu , iaea na da ƙasashe membbi 151.to amma yawan ƙasashe da su ka rattaba hannu kan yarjejeniyar hana yaɗuwar makaman nukiliya sun kai 189 wato kenan akwai ƙasashe wanda su , ba membobi ne ba cikin iaea , amma kuma sun rattaba hannu kan wannan yarjejeniya . korea ta arewa wadda da farko ta rattaba hannu kan yarjejeniyar , amma daga baya ta ƙaurace mata a shekara 1993 .
a yanzu ana ƙiyasta cewar koriya ta arewa ta mallaki a ƙalla sanda goma ta makamain nukiliya .
kuma ƙasashen duniya sun aza mata ƙafan zuƙa domin ganin cewar ta yi watsi da wannan makamai da ta mallaka .
mafi yawan ƙasashen duniya membobi ne a cikin hukumar ta iaea to amma akwai biyar daga cikin kasashe kuma dukan su membobi a komitin sulhu na majalisar da su ka rattaba hannu a kan yarjejeniyar hana yaɗuwar nukiliya amma kuma su ke cigaba da mallakar wannan makamai.wannan ƙasashe su ne rasha , amurika faransa , birtaniya , da china .
saidai na rasha sun fi na sauran yawa , domin an na kwatanta cewar ba za rasa aƙalla sanduna dubu 16 ba na wannan makamai , a yayin da amurika ta mallaki dubu biyar , faransa 350 , birtaniya na da 225 sai kuma china mai 200 .
akwai kumam ƙasashe ukku wanda su cemma ba su cikin hukumar iaea wanda kuma suma sun mallaki makaman nukilya , wannan ƙasashe sune indiya , pakistan da isra ´ ila .
akwai kuma kasashen da ake zargi da cewar suma suna cikin shirin mallakar wannan makamai daga cikinsu akwai iran wada ita ce ta fim kaurinsuna , sanan da brazil , da aljeriya , da saudi arabiya , sai syria da marokko .
sannan akwai ƙasashen wanda bayan sun rattaba hannu kan yarjejeniyar , su ka ragargaza wannan makamai domin zama da su haɗari ne , wannan ƙasashe sun haɗa da afrika ta kudu , suitzerland , sweden , libiya , irak , ukraine da kazakastan .
mawallafi : yahouza sadissou madobi edita : umaru aliyu send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
feedback send us your opinion kuna sauraronmu shirin safe shirin rana shirin yamma learning by ear shirin ji ka ƙaru shirin ilmantarwa akan wasu muhimman al ´ amura na zamantakewa da jama ´ a ba su damu da saninsu ba .
samun haɗin kan jamus jamus : rabuwa da sake haɗewa gani ya kori ji fafutukar raya gabacin jamus halin da matasa ke ciki a gabacin jamus matasa a yammacin jamus hotuna a kan rushewar katangar berlin bidiyo a kan katangar berlin a harshen turanci bundesliga 2010/2011 sakamakon wasanni podcasting taɓa ka lashe kullum , a ko-ina bajamushe a wurin aikinsa shiri kan rayuwa a jamus - na harshen hausa a cikin shirye-shiryenmu kowace talata da alhamis .
bayani na harshen hausa harshen turanci harshen faransanci dw-tv europe live kultur.21 we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
live , mobile , online hausa on your desktop via rss © dw 2010 ba deutsche welle ce ke da alhakin abubuwan da shafunan yanar gizo na waje suka ƙunsa ba .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
victims of abuse in children 's homes ' betrayed ' by compensation proposal -pipe- germany -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 09.01.2011 home news germany german reunification europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de justice -pipe- 13.12.2010 victims of abuse in children 's homes ' betrayed ' by compensation proposal großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many victims feel betrayed by the round table 's results a panel called to investigate the systematic maltreatment of thousands of juveniles in children 's homes in the 1950s and 1960s has recommended the payment of compensation .
but many victims feel betrayed . an extra-parliamentary panel in berlin on monday presented the results of two years of round-table negotiations on how to compensate tens of thousands of former children and youths for the systematic wrongdoings they had to endure at the hands of educators in west germany 's children 's homes in the 1950s and 1960s .
the panel recommended that victims who suffered torture , maltreatment and humiliation receive compensation from a 120-million-euro -lrb- $ 160 million -rrb- fund financed by the german government , federal states and churches .
the payments are to be used for pension funds , for treatment of subsequent damages or as rent assistance .
" children in children 's homes were never able to argue for their rights by themselves , " said antje vollmer , head of the round-table group of politicians , church representatives and victims .
" this is why they are still entitled to financial compensation . " the german parliament bundestag and the federal states ' parliaments have yet to decide on the round table 's proposals , but georg gorissen , the representative of the federal government and the western german federal states , said they were in favor of the compensation funds .
the catholic and the protestant church announced they would pay their share of the funds .
30,000 could make use of the funds twenty million euros are planned for pension payments since a lot of children had to start working at the age of 14 , but the children 's homes declined to pay into their pension funds .
another 100 million euros should go towards the treating the consequences of the abuse .
according to recent investigations , about 30,000 people are eligible for compensation .
so far , around 2,500 former victims have come forward .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " we did n't achieve all our goals , but we did achieve a lot , " said wiegand hans-siegfried wiegand , one of the more prominent victims participating in the round table negotiations , said that not all demands had been met .
victims groups had been aiming for a monthly lump-sum payment of 300 euros or a single payment of around 50,000 euros .
" we did n't achieve all of our goals , but we did achieve a lot , " wiegand said .
compensation is a " farce " the chairwoman of the association of former children 's homes residents , monika tschapek-guentner called the compensation funds a " farce " and dismissed case-to-case examinations .
tschapek-guentner is still demanding lump-sum payments to all victims .
the 120-million-euro fund is an " outrage , " amounting to between just 2,000-4,000 euros for each victim .
" that is really humiliating , " she said .
" that 's an attempt to drop the issue with minimum compensation . "
the association advised victims to claim money from the funds .
but tschapek-guentner is planning to take the case further .
" i will go as far as the european court of justice , " she said .
another member of the round-table , juergen beverfoerden , added that victims had been under a lot of pressure at the talks .
" there was the threat that we wo n't get anything if we do n't agree to the final report , " he said .
antje vollmer rebuffed the accusations . justice minister sabine leutheusser-schnarrenberger said that " earmarked funds are an appropriate reaction to individual injustice , " but said she also understood that expectations of victims might have been higher .
the head of the catholic church in germany , robert zollitsch and his protestant counterpart , nikolaus schneider , both advocated a quick and unbureaucratic establishment of the fund .
up to 800,000 children lived in german children 's homes between 1949 and 1975 , run by the government as well as by churches .
author : sarah steffen -lrb- epd , ap , kna , afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de germany launches campaign for sexual abuse victims to speak out in response to the child abuse scandal in the catholic church , thousands of german victims are being targeted by a new campaign that aims to end their silent suffering .
the message is that talking helps .
-lrb- 21.09.2010 -rrb- cases of sex abuse emerge from former east germany following the scandals of child sex abuse in the roman catholic church and private schools in western germany , new revelations have now emerged about abuse in former communist east germany .
-lrb- 01.04.2010 -rrb- germany urges catholic church to come clean on child abuse the german government has called on the catholic church to play a proactive role in clarifying the widening allegations of clerical sex abuse at catholic schools throughout the country .
-lrb- 21.02.2010 -rrb- audios and videos on the topic ' too little , too late ' -lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- victims of abuse set to receive compensation -lrb- 13.12.2010 -rrb- feedback how much compensation should victims receive ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live projekt zukunft we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live pulse listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
feature life behind the wall dw-tv presents a unique animated depiction of the former german-german border .
dw-radio living in germany learn more about german society by listening to this weekly radio program .
on demand service video on demand audio on demand audio / video podcasting © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery -pipe- europe -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.01.2011 home news germany europe map world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de business -pipe- 13.12.2010 oecd warns eurozone over debt despite its slow recovery großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : eurozone states have to stop spending money they do n't have and start to cut debt the oecd urged eurozone states to start cutting down their debt loads and correct economic imbalances as soon as possible .
its chief economist gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds , calling them a " good idea " . the organization for economic co-operation and development -lrb- oecd -rrb- warned the 16 eurozone member states on monday that they need to start cutting their heavy debt loads and adopt tough measures to correct economic imbalances . the oecd also urged them to install a permanent crisis resolution mechanism which would force nations to carry out reforms in order to receive aid .
in its latest survey , the oecd predicted the eurozone 's economy would grow by 1.7 percent this year before accelerating to 2 percent in 2011 .
and although the oecd said the eurozone enjoyed a " gradual and sustained recovery " from last year 's steep recession , it also predicted that the pace of recovery would likely be muted .
eurozone states should begin to cut debts by 2011 the latest " fiscal consolidation is the immediate priority to stabilize the public finances and should begin by 2011 at the latest in all countries , " the oecd said in a statement .
oecd chief economist pier carlo padoan acknowledged that it took economists like him too long to understand the underlying reasons for the euro crisis .
" we economists have to plead guilty to that because we now discovered that while looking at -lrb- the -rrb- fiscal -lrb- situation -rrb- that needs to be looked at , we neglected other elements that now we know prove to be extremely important , " he said .
the crisis was caused by an economic imbalance , which had always existed in europe , he added .
the common currency only served to exacerbate that fact .
according to daniel gros , head of the center for european policy studies , one has to go back about 20 years to find the root of the current crisis .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : " strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms " will boost growth , said padoan " the problems we have been experiencing at the european periphery go back to german reunification .
at that time , germany experienced a construction and consumption boom which led to a rise in interest rates , while the rest of europe was moving in the opposite direction , " he said .
" beginning in 1995 , it was germany that had to watch its finances while other nations , thanks to the global credit boom , were spending more freely .
now the tables are turning again . "
the massive public debt of practically all of the oecd 's member states , is one of the main problems , said chief economist padoan .
" the first , best solution for countries is strong fiscal adjustment and decisive structural reforms to boost growth .
we think this is the way forward . "
financial markets may not grant greece enough time to implement reforms however , eurozone states appear to be moving in the right direction .
" the reforms we are currently witnessing in greece and elsewhere will take effect at some point , " said gros .
" the question we 're asking right now is whether the financial markets will give those countries the time they need to implement the reforms .
germany had enough time .
greece may possibly not . "
this is a scenario no one wants to imagine .
oecd chief economist padoan gave rise to the idea of joint euro bonds .
" imagining that there is a european dimension to financial markets , including bond markets , is a good idea , " he said .
author : christoph hasselbach -lrb- db / sst / dpa / afp -rrb- editor : rob turner send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de ireland bailout reignites fears about the future of the euro germany has seen a number of its own currencies come and go : the deutschmark , the reichsmark and , before that , the mark .
now some analysts are grumbling that the euro may be on its way out too .
-lrb- 24.11.2010 -rrb- debt crisis exposes the euro 's flaws but divorce is not an option like marriage partners , eurozone nations fight about money .
germany grumbles about paying for the profligacy of others , but pays , since sticking together is the lesser of evils , says die zeit 's josef joffe .
-lrb- 11.06.2010 -rrb- eurogroup finance ministers agree details of euro safety net eurozone finance ministers have signed off on a 500-billion-euro safety fund to stave off future crises within the single currency zone .
the announcement comes amid concerns over the strength and stability of the euro .
-lrb- 07.06.2010 -rrb- feedback what should germany do in order to cut its public debt ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
dw-tv europe live journal we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour a youth orchestra from brazil listen live media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
postcards from europe an insider look at the continent .
italians hard hit by plastic bag ban east meets west in russia for christmas a little headache called austria uk prisoners to get the vote the demise of an oracle europe keep up with the latest in europe .
macedonia 's drug city belarus : the last dictatorship islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
successful european tech startups continue to lag behind -pipe- science & technology -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 10.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de internet -pipe- 13.12.2010 successful european tech startups continue to lag behind großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : european startups still lag behind us counterparts after a series of recent european tech conferences , silicon valley continues to dominate .
tech venture capital on this side of the atlantic still remains relatively small , due to bureaucracy , language problems . it was hard to ignore the dominance of silicon valley at this year 's leweb tech conference last week in paris - nearly all the speakers and featured guests were from california 's famed tech hub .
while european innovation is picking up speed , it is starting from a long way behind the american startup scene - participants at the conference blamed over-cautious investors and misguided government spending .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : european venture capitalists have n't been investing in tech startups as long as they have been in silicon valley a vicious cycle in europe adventurous investors tend to be entrepreneurs themselves , so , where silicon valley has created a virtuous cycle , europe is faced with a chicken-and-egg situation : there 's not enough money because there are not enough start-ups , and there are not enough start-ups because there 's not enough money .
" i know quite a few companies that moved to the valley just because they found capital there , " said sarik weber , a german entrepreneur who runs the start-up incubator programme hanse ventures in hamburg .
his company provides capital and advice to new businesses .
" the whole silicon valley ecosystem is based on 40 to 50 years of entrepreneurs building their companies doing exits very successfully and then reinvesting this money back into the ecosystem , " he added . " this is what really fosters the european startup scene .
when we get great exits like skype or others , these people reinvest their money into european start-ups and we have to create that . "
while european governments spend more on research and development than their american and japanese counterparts , experts say that tax incentives and subsidies are not doing anything to encourage private-sector investors .
" the state is doing its job , but do the individual investors have enough confidence to invest more in research and development ? " said pierre monhen , who teaches innovation policy at the united nations university in maastricht , the netherlands .
" there is a more cautious attitude in europe than in the us . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : some entrepeneurs claim that with the proper political direction , european startups could do much better poor european political decisions hinder innovation , entrepeneurs say but several entrepreneurs at leweb maintained that it is a political problem , and less of a problem of entrepeneurship . european governments , and the european union itself , may be spending money , but it is not very effective .
johan staeul von holstein , who has most recently founded mycube , a social networking startup based in singapore , thinks innovation could be encouraged with judicious tax reforms .
" there 's as much capital as you can possibly imagine around , " he said .
" it 's just that the wrong people are sitting on the capital .
politicians need to understand the value of entrepreneurship and innovation and growth , and by giving huge tax benefits to entrepreneurs making their own decisions and putting large amounts of money in the hands of entrepreneurs : that would change the whole system in 24 hours . "
a more serious problem is cultural attitudes and bad ideas , according to tariq krim , one of europe 's most successful entrepreneurs .
he set up jolicloud , a company that makes a linux-based operating system which can be installed on any computer .
he adds that spending on innovation is misguided , and tends to go to a few large companies rather than lots of small ones .
in 2008 , france , for example , invested 99 million euros -lrb- $ 131 million -rrb- in a new search engine called quearo , which was supposed to be a european answer to google .
since then , essentially nothing has happened and the project appears to be dead .
" they should have rather give money to 20 start ups , " krim said .
“ it has to be a competitive state about ideas . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : many european startups , like slense , limit themselves to only a few languages , like english - making the european market a lot smaller .
heterogeneous language , culture slow european tech startups but beyond poor investment , the single european market may have simplified the movement of labor and money , but it has not created a single customer base .
freddy mini , who runs netvibes , a start-up that creates personalised dashboards on the web , pointed out that american companies automatically have a leg up , as they have a much more culturally and linguistically homogenous employment and customer base than their european counterparts .
in other words , he noted , european companies have to hire specialists for each corner of the continent .
" the first advice is forget your culture - get to the culture of the country where you live and hire people from the ground , " he said .
author : molly guinness , paris editor : cyrus farivar send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de niche search engines pick needles out of web haystacks several new search engines focus on segments of the web , like social networking or microblogging sites .
they are not looking to challenge google , but they are letting users search places that google ca n't reach .
-lrb- 22.09.2010 -rrb- swedish start-up offers new micro-donation system flattr lets readers donate by clicking buttons on blogs and other websites .
some sites have reported income of over 1,000 euros as a result of the new company .
-lrb- 06.08.2010 -rrb- ‘ hubs ’ offer like-minded businesses a shared home as more people start businesses from home with nothing but a laptop , the rapidly growing ' hub ' network aims to create a mutually beneficial work environment that provides some of the perks of working for a larger firm .
-lrb- 21.07.2010 -rrb- feedback what can europe do to encourage more and better tech startups ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . media center watch and listen explore new content daily in dw 's multi-media archive .
learn more about dw 's weekly program about science and technology .
listen to spectrum social media follow dw 's science and technology coverage . @ dw _ scitech dw on facebook internet leibniz prize winner anja feldmann tells dw how the internet can be improved .
watch the interview google dw looks at the arguments for and against google 's panoramic views of german cities going online .
pro and cons of google street view health focus on hiv dw looks at research and recent progress in the fight against hiv / aids .
radio news listen to world headlines from the top of the hour .
reader response your opinion we want to know what you think .
click here to send an e-mail to the editors . © dw 2011 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
new red shirt leader eyes the path of peace -pipe- asia -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 03.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de politics -pipe- 13.12.2010 new red shirt leader eyes the path of peace großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thida thavornseth , center with microphone , at a rally in bangkok last friday in thailand , efforts are continuing to overcome the social and political divisions highlighted by massive anti-government protests earlier this year .
the red shirts have a new leader , thida thavornseth . seven months after the thai military used force to end anti-government protests in central bangkok ’ s commercial district of rajprasong , thousands attended an open-air concert there .
it featured a new symphony by thai composer somtow sucharitkul , played by a 150-member orchestra and choir .
the performance marked a further step to overcome deep rifts within thai society .
somtow , who wrote the symphony to honor thai king bhumipol adulyadej , said achieving reconciliation remains a challenge .
" there is an enormous amount of anger , and the whole concept of winning and losing and coming back is not deeply engrained in our culture " , somtow told deutsche welle .
" this is a culture that in the past has been really driven by the idea of vengeance in many ways , and this is something that we have to overcome .
i feel that if i can ’ t do it with words , perhaps i can do it with music . "
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thai soldiers suppressed red shirt protests with force in may the clashes between protesters and security forces for more than two months left 91 people dead and almost 2,000 injured .
the protests were led by the so-called red shirts , largely supporting former prime minister thaksin shinawatra .
after a coup ousted thaksin in 2006 , two more pro-thaksin governments were forced to stand down by court decisions .
red shirts in disarray but after the army clampdown in spring , the red shirt movement has been in disarray .
many of its leaders were arrested or fled the country .
the new acting chairwoman thida thavornseth is no stranger to thai politics .
her husband , weng tojirakarn is in jail along with other red shirt leaders .
thida said she took up the leadership amid fears that hard-line elements were planning to take over .
" we have to find a leader to lead people in the right way , and we want to keep the movement peaceful , " she said . " otherwise the democracy movement – our democracy movement – may be destroyed , as some people want to destroy the peaceful movement . "
thailand remains deeply divided .
many among the rural poor and the urban working class continue to support thaksin .
bildunterschrift : großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : thailand 's prime minister abhisit vejjajiva preparing for next year 's elections the government , led by prime minister abhisit vejjajiva ’ s democrat party , has launched investigations into the bloodshed along with a truth for reconciliation commission .
but progress has been mixed , and thida is skeptical .
" the first thing you have to find is the truth , and justice for the people .
only then you can move on towards reconciliation . "
chris baker , an author and commentator on thai politics , said the red shirts ' main focus will be to support the pro-thaksin puea thai party ahead of the general elections . " they are very much concentrated on when the next election will be and how that will be managed .
then there ’ s a lot of pushing and shoving , so it ’ s far from simple , " said baker .
" so that ’ s what people are concentrating on , not court cases and reconciliation commissions . "
on the weekend , by-election victories for the democrat party and its coalition partner provided a short-term boost for the government .
author : ron corben -lrb- bangkok -rrb- editor : thomas baerthlein send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
dw-world.de press freedom in thailand is on the wane according to this year 's reporters without borders press freedom index , thailand is down from place 130 in 2009 to 153 out of 178 nations .
the government has been using an emergency decree to target opposition media .
-lrb- 18.11.2010 -rrb- tensions between cambodia and thailand over red shirts cambodia has strongly denied accusations from thailand that anti-government red shirt protesters were trained at a cambodian military base in a plot to assassinate top thai leaders .
-lrb- 12.10.2010 -rrb- thailand 's new army chief takes office general prayuth chan-ocha replaces anupong paochinda at a time when thailand remains divided into two political camps .
-lrb- 01.10.2010 -rrb- feedback what do you think about the future of the red shirt movement ?
send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . january asia quiz quiz of the month thailand the government has revoked the state of emergency in parts of southern thailand .
dw correspondent ron corben talks about bangkok 's policies in the deep south asia compact join us on facebook !
listen to asia compact the latest from asia , monday to friday asia compact 31.12.10 china flexes its muscles in 2010 affirmative action in afghanistan asian english writers in 2010 podcast for itunes users click here if you 're an itunes user podcast via rss-feed copy this link into your favorite podcast program listen to asia live live , mobile , online newsletter and rss-feed if you had a subscription to our old rss feed , please re-subscribe here !
a list of deutsche welle 's rss feeds get an overview of all the rss feeds available for subscription from dw-world.de. newsletters fokus asien ihr klick in die region das deutschsprachige angebot der deutschen welle aus und über asien islamic world intercultural dialogue analysis , background and commentary on issues tied to dialogue with the islamic world . © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
nadine vogt from oberhausen , germany -pipe- questionnaire -pipe- deutsche welle -pipe- 13.12.2010 main content main navigation extra content head navigation search choose form 30 languages about us press business & sales dw-akademie dw-store contact help partner site map archive search keywords search extended search your link to germany choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages choose from 30 languages english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu choose from 30 languages 02.01.2011 home news germany europe world asia business science & technology environment & development culture & lifestyle sports germany info visit germany facts about germany study in germany german courses learning german deutsch unterrichten german xxl dw-radio what 's on ?
programs reception audio on demand learning by ear dw-tv what 's on ?
program guide programs tomorrow today video on demand reception about dw-tv interactive reader response newsletters web tools and services podcasting mobile about dw-world.de home / dw-tv europa : tomorrow today science -pipe- 13.12.2010 nadine vogt from oberhausen , germany großansicht des bildes mit der bildunterschrift : why do moles dig hills ? send us an e-mail » -pipe- send » -pipe- print » more on the topic share this article what is social bookmarking ?
audios and videos on the topic the report as video on demand feedback send us an e-mail .
please include your name and country in your reply . dw-tv europe live euromaxx we 're sorry , due to legal issues this content can not be transmitted as live stream .
if you are inside the united states , it is still possible for you to enjoy dw-tv .
for more information , please click here .
dw-radio live concert hour a full dose of schumann and beethoven listen live © dw 2010 deutsche welle is not responsible for the content of external websites .
english german chinese spanish portuguese for brazil arabic russian persian albanian amharic bengali bosnian b / h / s bulgarian croatian dari french greek hausa hindi indonesian kiswahili macedonian pashto polish portuguese romanian serbian turkish ukrainian urdu
<p>
